# Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | J. Johnston <jjohnstn@cygnus.com> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-29T17:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3AC3D715.2EE2DB6@cygnus.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3AC3D715.2EE2DB6@cygnus.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/01-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/29/17-53-00)

Robert Collins wrote:
>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "J. Johnston" <jjohnstn@cygnus.com>
> To: "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>
> Cc: "Joel Sherrill" <joel.sherrill@OARcorp.com>;
> <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>; <newlib@sources.redhat.com>
> Sent: Friday, March 30, 2001 3:26 AM
> Subject: Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs
>
> > Robert Collins wrote:
> > >
> > >
> > > Uhmm yes :] I've actually put the cygwin ones in cygwin/types.h, but
> >
>
> as
> > > long as it's system specific it doesn't really matter.
> > >
> >
> >
> > So, what are you proposing?  I still contend that removing all the
>
> system pthread
> > types into the sys directories is the clean way to implement this and
>
> the best
> > long term solution for adding other system pthread implementations in
>
> the future.
> > I don't think overriding the entire types header is warranted.
> >
> > Unless you have a better proposal, I am going to do this so it would
>
> save me the work
> > if as part of your change you simply split the pthread types into
>
> sys/pthreadtypes.h and
> > put the RTEMS stuff in the RTEMS directory and the Cygwin stuff in the
>
> Cygwin directory.
> >
> > -- Jeff J.
> >
>
>
> I don't know how rtems is laid out - what I am proposing was
> src/newlib/libc/include/sys/types.h includes <cygwin/types.h> (which
> only overrides pthreads at the moment)
> src/winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/types.h contains the types that were
> conflicting with rtems.
>
> Where should I #include the rtems header from?


src/newlib/libc/include/sys/types.h should include <sys/pthreadtypes.h>.  Ideally, this can be
protected by a check for #if defined (_POSIX_THREADS) in which case <sys/features.h> must be
included outside of the RTEMS check and src/newlib/libc/include/sys/features.h must be updated to
set _POSIX_THREADS for Cygwin.

A default src/newlib/libc/include/sys/pthreadtypes.h can be made which has defaults for all of the
pthread types (your generic void * types) or alternatively these types can be put in
/src/newlib/libc/sys/cygwin/sys/pthreadtypes.h

Put the RTEMS pthread type stuff from sys/types.h into src/newlib/libc/sys/rtems/sys/pthreadtypes.h 
(no need for RTEMS markers and you should bring along the #include <sys/sched.h>).

If you are ok with the PTHREAD constants from sys/types.h then put them into pthread.h where they
belong.  If there is conflict between RTEMS and Cygwin for the values of the constants, then add __
versions in the appropriate system-specific pthreadtypes.h and add a check in pthread.h to allow
overriding the constants with their __ versions.

-- Jeff J.


