# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: mmap: allow remapping part of an existing anonymous, mapping

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-11T18:43:28-05:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [05430d18-35fd-4957-8277-5ae3077b3bf3@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/05430d18-35fd-4957-8277-5ae3077b3bf3@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2024/12/28/21-40-47.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/11/23-43-28)

On 1/8/2025 10:24 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan  7 21:27, Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 1/7/2025 3:18 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > - mmap_record::prot flag, should be an array of protection bits per page
> > >     (POSIX page i e., 64K, not Windows page).
> >
> >
> > Question: Since it only takes 3 bits to store all possible protections, do
> > you think it's worth the trouble to pack the protections, so that each byte
> > stores the protection bits for 2 pages?  Or should I just use an array of
> > unsigned char, with 1 byte for each page?  Or did you have something else in
> > mind?
>
>
> I hadn't thought deeply about this.  I had a vague notion of a ULONG
> array to match windows protection bits, but, as you note above, we
> really only need 3 bits.
>
> I don't think we have to define this as a bit field array, given this
> isn't readily available in C and you would have to add bitfield
> arithmetic by yourself.  So, yeah, a char or maybe better uint8_t
> might be the best matching type here.

Another question: Adding this array to mmap_record, we have two flexible 
arrays in the class: one for page_map and one for the protection array. 
My understanding is that a class or struct can have only one flexible 
array member, and it has to be at the end.  What's the best way to deal 
with that?  The only thing I can think of is to use a pointer instead of 
an array for the protections, and then allocate memory for it separately 
when an mmap_record is created.  Or is there a better way?

Thanks.

Ken


