# Re: close-on-exec handles are left open by exec parent

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-08-04T11:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010804144730.B3038@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010804144730.B3038@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/07-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/08/04/11-48-00)

On Sat, Aug 04, 2001 at 08:55:46PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Friday, 03 August, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> > >  here's the proposed patch. it also contains a fix FreeConsole ()
> > > related bug -- when cygwin application frees its console,
> > > "process_input" thread may be still running. When console is closed,
> > > WaitForMultipleObjects () with console handle returns WAIT_FAILED, so
> > > "process_input" thread starts cycling and eating CPU.
> >
>
>
> CF> Ack! I don't understand why you've introduced another synchronization
> CF> event.  Why not just close all of the fds after the program has been
> CF> successfully executed?  Once CreateProcess has executed, the handles will
> CF> be opened by the new process.
>
> they do, but we care not only about win32 handles. when /dev/tty0 is
> closed, some new process (for example) which opens /dev/tty, allocates
> new tty, an it will be /dev/tty0, won't it?


Not if the inuse event is operating correctly, no.

> without synchronization i got all kinds of strange lockups and
> crashes, which disappear when synchronization is added. i didn't
> investigate those crashes, but they probably do need some closer
> investigation. i'll try to look at them.


Yes.  As I said, this is the way that (shudder) B20 used to do it, I think.
If there are crashes I'd like to understand why.

> your point about non-cygwin apps is absolutely valid, though :( i have
> to think it over a bit more. maybe we need to add some kind of
> "pre-close" that closes win32 handles, but left cygwin-specific data,
> such as tty slot, intact. or just utilize fixup_before_exec ()


As I said, I don't think that the tty slot thing should be an issue.  If
it is, that's a bug.

cgf


