# Re: [PATCH 2/5] Link against libdnsapi to avoid undefined reference

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-03-21T19:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160321195244.GJ14892@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160321195244.GJ14892@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/17-46-00-6.thread.md#:~:text=2016/03/21/19-52-00)

On Mar 21 15:45, Peter Foley wrote:
> On Mon, Mar 21, 2016 at 3:24 PM, Corinna Vinschen
> <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> wrote:
> > On Mar 21 13:15, Peter Foley wrote:
> > > /home/peter/cross/src/cygwin/winsup/cygwin/libc/minires-os-if.c:289:
> > > undefined reference to `DnsFree'
> > >
> > > winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog
> > > Makefile.in: Add libdnsapi to DLL_IMPORTS
> >
> >
> > Apart from the fact that this is wrong and DnsFree should be added to
> > autoload.cc instead, what exactly is that patch fixing?  DnsFree isn't
> > used anywhere in Cygwin.
>
>
> This fixes the above link error when building cygwin0.dll as part of a
> cross toolchain.
>
> The issue appears to be caused by this change in the mingw headers.
> It probably won't show up for anybody not building against the latest
> git version of mingw untill the next release.
> https://github.com/mirror/mingw-w64/commit/38410a
>
> I assume this function should still be added to autoload.cc, rather
> then modifying DLL_IMPORTS.
> I'll take a look at that.


While you're at it, ideally we make ourselves independent of the MingW
header version and use DnsFree directly, replacing DnsRecordListFree
in autoload.cc and libc/minires-os-if.c, no?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
