# Re: Rewrite/fix cygwin1.dbg generation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-11-05T11:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071105115705.GA2172@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071105115705.GA2172@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/17-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/11/05/11-57-00)

On Mon, Nov 05, 2007 at 12:20:48PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov  5 10:19, Pedro Alves wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Nov  4 04:00, Pedro Alves wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Ah, got it.  VirtualAlloc fails on the first _csbrk, since it
> > > > is tripping on the VMA of .gnu_debuglink ...  I assumed it would
> > > > not be a problem, since it isn't ALLOCced, but oh well...
> > > > I tried adding an EXCLUDE/NOLOAD flag to .gnu_debuglink, but no
> > > > can do.
> > >
> > >
> > > That was the reason for creating the .dbg file in the first place,
> > > wasn't it?  The Windows loader appears to allocate the full size of all
> > > sections of the image, including the NOLOAD and DEBUG sections.  Sort of
> > > counterproductive but there seem to be no way around it.
> > >
> >
> >
> > It occurred me that the problem may be that
> > ld is accounting for the virtual address and virtual size of the last section
> > to write the SizeOfImage field in the PE headers, in
> > bfd/peXXigen.c:_bfd_XXi_swap_aouthdr_out.
> > We can change it to not include non ALLOC, DEBUG sections.
> >
> > Anyone tried that already?
>
>
> Not me.  It never occurred to me that this could be a problem in ld,
> actually.  If that's the problem and we can fix it, that would be really
> cool.  IIUTC, it would remove the necessity to create a cygwin1.dbg file
> at all.


The real question is if the above is actually doing the right thing wrt
LINK.EXE.  When I was playing with this, I could duplicate the behavior
I didn't want by fiddling with the bits in the sections with Microsoft
tools, bypassing ld entirely.  So, I'm not sure that this is an ld.exe
problem.

cgf


