# Re: dtors run twice on dll detach (update)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-01T22:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020602054342.GA5509@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020602054342.GA5509@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/02/05-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/01/22-43-00)

On Thu, May 02, 2002 at 03:37:24PM +0200, Benjamin Riefenstahl wrote:
> "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> writes:
> > > If we just avoid setting up the destructor calls using atexit 
> > > then the destructors will only run once.  So, in the normal 
> > > case, the destructor will run after much cleanup has occurred 
> > > in the cygwin DLL (specifically in the do_exit function).  
> > > This means that the destructor may not be able to use all of 
> > > the facilities of cygwin when it is finally executed.
> >
> >
> > Yup. That is why I don't think that the atexit call is obsolete.
> >
> > > This won't be an issue for the problem below, but I wonder if 
> > > it is a problem for other destructors.  I'm not sure what 
> > > kind of environment a global destructor is guaranteed to have 
> > > but I suspect that it should be a completely normal environment.
> > >
> > > Anyone know for sure?  Is there an online reference for this 
> > > kind of thing?
> >
> >
> > It'll be in the C++ standard, which is proprietary :[. Anyone here have
> > the standard and care to check for us?
>
>
> C++ 98 in one spot (3.6.3 Termination, para 3) says that atexit()
> functions are called before destructors for objects created before
> registration of the atexit() functions and after destruction of
> objects created after registration.  IOW the order is as if destructor
> calls are implemented as atexit() functions.
>
> Later in the description of exit() (18.3 Start and Termination, para
> 8) this is repeated.  Actions of exit() are defined to be in this
> order:
>
> - atexit() functions and destructor calls.
>
> - Flushing C streams. 
>
> - Return to OS with exit code. 
>
> Except for the addition of destructor calls, this is the same
> definition as in the C standard, judging from my copy of the last C9x
> draft.


I never thanked you for providing this information.  THANK YOU.

I finally got around to fixing this problem tonight.  I wanted to get
it into 1.3.11.

It should be in the next snapshot.

Although I didn't use the method in the patch, I do appreciate the amount
of work that went into tracking down the problem.  I think that my fix
will be a little less intrusive but it would have taken me very much
longer to figure out what was going on without the use of the patch.

Thanks,
cgf


