# All You Need to Know About USB C to HDMI Cable

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | sales08@innovatetop.com <sales08@innovatetop.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-03-10T18:26:01+08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [2020030010182600010941@qiuxing.store](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2020030010182600010941@qiuxing.store) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-26-01.thread.md#:~:text=2020/03/10/10-26-01)

Dear friend,
Hope it finds well with you.
This is Carol from Eminence-top.
On 1st February, 2020, the European Union has unified the USB C interface for mobile phones, although Apple insist on using lightning connector for its iphone devices, the new Apple tablet and Macbook has adopted the USB C interface. Therefore, a growing demand of of USB C to HDMI cable will increase significantly when these Apple devices are to be connected to TVs, projectors and other devices. Many big brands, like Anker and Belkin have recently launched their own USB C to HDMI cables due to substantial potential profits.
I am writing to recommend our USB C to HDMI cable. We have launched several USB C to HDMI data cables. You can use it to connect Macbook, Macbook Air and other devices with HDMI interface.
With the below specifications, our USB C to HDMI cable has the very powerful functions and can support most the customers’ requirements:
Display Port 1.2 Alternate ModeAlternate Mode allows a USB C equipped computer to connect directly to a display or monitor. The monitor will need to have a USB C port for you to make this connection.
USB C Connector and HDMI portCan easily connect a USB C enabled smartphone/PC/Laptop to a HDTV, monitor or projector with HDMI port. It is ideal for conference, presentation, gaming, or expanding workspace by connecting your USB C devices to a large screen.
4K@60Hz ResolutionSupports resolution up to 4K*2K (3840*2160), upgraded to 60Hz. Backwards compatible with 1080p. It is capable of delivering incredibly fast data transfers and transmits video and audio with high definition.
5G Transfer Speed  Support high speed data transfer, up to 5Gbps.
Support High Dynamic Range videoHDMI output supports resolutions up to 4K and provides a simple plug and play connection to high-definition displays or monitors.
High performance Signal TransmissionPlug and Play, does not require any additional programs. Tinned copper with triple-layer shielding to ensure stable signal transmission; Aluminum alloy Casing, Nylon braided material and Gold-plated connectors to ensure a superior durability and functionality under heavy usage.
Compatibility ListCompatible with MacBook Pro 15"(2016-2018), MacBook Pro 13"(2016-2019), MacBook 2017/2016/2015, MacBook Air 2018/2019, iMac2018/2017(21.5"/27"), iMac pro 2018/2017(27"), Mac mini, Mac Pro, Surface Book 2, Pixelbook, Dell XPS 15/13, ipad pro2018 12.9"(Gen3), ipad pro2018 11", Surface Go, Samsung Note 8/9/10, Samsung S8/S9/S10 or plus, HUAWEI mate10/mate20/p20/p30 and more.
Max 5MThe perfect length 5m can enlarge the scenes in your daily life. Besides the scenes of other shorter cables applied for, you could also connect your devices to your TV while siting on a coach or bed at home or in a hotel.
Please aware that we have set up Vietnam branch at 2017, and started production most consumer electronics since the beginning of 2018, if there’s any tariff concessions available for you to import from Vietnam, I would love to offer support .
For more information, please do not hesitate to contact me, or visit our website below.
Looking forward to hear from you.
Thanks and Best regards.
Carol FanShenzhen Eminence-Top Technology Co., Ltd.
Add：Yintian industrial Park, Xixiang, Bao'an district, Shenzhen 518100
Website: www.eminence-top.com
Skype: sales08_729
WhatsApp: +86 18277206997
Tel/Wechat: +86 17302665816


