# Re: [PATCH] gprof profiling of multi-threaded Cygwin programs, ver 2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-02-25T08:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.BSF.4.63.1602250040380.66582@m0.truegem.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.BSF.4.63.1602250040380.66582@m0.truegem.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/02/25/08-47-00)

On Tue, 23 Feb 2016, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 22 23:36, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > On Mon, 22 Feb 2016, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > There doesn't seem to be anything specific to profiling about this, so it
> > > could be written in a more generic way, as "call a callback function for
> > > each thread".
> >
> >
> > I saw your later conversation with Corinna on the list re why
> > cygwin_internal() is involved now.  (I too had stumbled over the
> > cygwin1.dll/libgmon.a gap when I started this work.)  Given the necessity of
> > the separation, does it still make sense to write a generic per-thread
> > callback mechanism and then make use of it for this patch, or is that
> > overkill?  I can't tell.
>
>
> One problem with a generic solution is to generalize the arguments to
> the called function.  IMHO, keep it as is for now.  If we ever need to
> make this generic we can still do it.


OK.

> > > > +	if ((prefix = getenv("GMON_OUT_PREFIX")) != NULL) {
> > >
> > >
> > > setup-env.xml might be an appropriate place to mention this environment
> > > variable.
> >
> >
> > I am now writing a gprof.xml that will be tied into the existing
> > programming.xml.  I plan to document GMON_OUT_PREFIX in gprof.xml.  Do you
> > think that's sufficient?
>
>
> A single paragraph in setup-env.xml pointing to gprof.xml might be
> helpful, I think.


Alright, I can do that as part of the separate doc patch that I'm working.

I ran into an issue while testing the profiling of programs that fork() 
but don't exec().  So it may be a short while before I can send ver 3. 
Just FYI.

..mark


