# Re: [PATCH] gprof profiling of multi-threaded Cygwin programs, ver 2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-02-25T09:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160225090909.GA27880@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160225090909.GA27880@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/02/25/09-09-00)

On Feb 25 00:47, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Tue, 23 Feb 2016, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 22 23:36, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > On Mon, 22 Feb 2016, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > There doesn't seem to be anything specific to profiling about this, so it
> > > > could be written in a more generic way, as "call a callback function for
> > > > each thread".
> > >
> > >
> > > I saw your later conversation with Corinna on the list re why
> > > cygwin_internal() is involved now.  (I too had stumbled over the
> > > cygwin1.dll/libgmon.a gap when I started this work.)  Given the necessity of
> > > the separation, does it still make sense to write a generic per-thread
> > > callback mechanism and then make use of it for this patch, or is that
> > > overkill?  I can't tell.
> >
> >
> > One problem with a generic solution is to generalize the arguments to
> > the called function.  IMHO, keep it as is for now.  If we ever need to
> > make this generic we can still do it.
>
>
> OK.
>
> > > > > +	if ((prefix = getenv("GMON_OUT_PREFIX")) != NULL) {
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > setup-env.xml might be an appropriate place to mention this environment
> > > > variable.
> > >
> > >
> > > I am now writing a gprof.xml that will be tied into the existing
> > > programming.xml.  I plan to document GMON_OUT_PREFIX in gprof.xml.  Do you
> > > think that's sufficient?
> >
> >
> > A single paragraph in setup-env.xml pointing to gprof.xml might be
> > helpful, I think.
>
>
> Alright, I can do that as part of the separate doc patch that I'm working.
>
> I ran into an issue while testing the profiling of programs that fork() but
> don't exec().  So it may be a short while before I can send ver 3. Just FYI.


Ok, no worries.  If you want to discuss something, we also have the
#cygwin-developers IRC channel on freenode.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
