# Re: [PATCH 1/5] Cygwin: Make 'ulimit -c' control writing a coredump

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2024-01-27T15:12:57Z |
| **Message-ID** | [d5fc9479-0882-417e-a047-752997eae0ad@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d5fc9479-0882-417e-a047-752997eae0ad@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/14-09-51.thread.md#:~:text=2024/01/27/15-12-57)

On 26/01/2024 11:52, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 26 12:12, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan 25 20:03, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 25/01/2024 18:21, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jan 25 14:50, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > On 24/01/2024 14:39, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > On Jan 24 13:28, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > > On 23/01/2024 14:29, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > > > On Jan 23 14:20, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > > [...]
> > > > > So this situation with a JIT debugger is even stranger than my emendations
> > > > > to the documentation say.
> > > > >
> > > > > Because we're hitting try_to_debug() in exception::handle(), which has some
> > > > > code to replay the exception via ExceptionContinueExecution (which I guess
> > > > > the debugger will catch as a first-chance) (and goes into a mode where it
> > > > > ignores the next half-million exceptions... no idea what that's about!)
> > > > >
> > > > > That's not the same as signal_exit() with a coredumping signal (haven't
> > > > > checked if those are all generated from exceptions, but seems probable, so
> > > > > the try_to_debug() there maybe isn't doing anything?), where we're going to
> > > > > exit thereafter.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > try_to_debug() is only calling IsDebuggerPresent() as test, and that's
> > > > nothing but a flag in the PEB which is set by the OS after a debugger
> > > > attached to the process.  So the test is by definition extremely
> > > > flaky, if the debugger is connecting and disconnecting, as you
> > > > already pointed out.
> > > >
> > > > I'm wondering if we can't define our own way to attach to a process,
> > > > allowing to "WaitForDebugger" as long as the debugger is a Cygwin
> > > > debugger.  If we define a matching function (along the lines of
> > > > prctl(2) on Linux), we could change our debuggers, core dumpers
> > > > and stracers to call this attach function.
> > > >
> > > > The idea would be to define some shared mutex object, the inferior
> > > > waits for and the debugger releases after having attached.
> > > >
> > > > Is there really any need to support non-Cygwin debuggers?
> > >
> > >
> > > idk
> > >
> > > I think something like that used to exist a long time ago, see commit
> > > 8abeff1ead5f3824c70111bc0ff74ff835dafa55
> >
> >
> > Yeah, just, as was the default at the time, without any trace of a
> > *rational* why it has been removed.  Also, it was too simple anyway.
> >
> > First, if we want to support WIndows debugger, the inferior has to check
> > if the debugger is a Cygwin or native debugger.  If a native debugger,
> > just stick to what we have today.  Otherwise:
> >
> > - Create a named mutex with a reproducible name (no need to use
> >    the name as parameter) and immediately grab it.
> > - Call CreateProcess to start the debugger with CREATE_SUSPENDED
> >    flag.
> > - Create a HANDLE array with the mutex and the process HANDLE.
>
>
> ```
>      On second thought, it might be a good idea to make this
>      interruptible as well, but given this is called from the
>      exception handler this may have weird results...
>   
> ```
>
> > - Call ResumeThread on the primary debugger thread.
> > - Call WFMO with timeout.
> >
> > Later on, the debugger either fails and exits or it calls
> > ReleaseMutex after having attached to the process.
> >
> > - WFMO returns
> > - If the mutex has triggered, we're being debugged (but check
> >    IsDebuggerPresent() just to be sure)
> > - If the process has triggered, the debugger exited
> > - If the timeout triggers... oh well.
>


This seems like quite a lot of work, for very marginal benefit.

And doing lots of complex work inside the process when we're in the 
middle of handling a SEGV seems like asking for trouble.

I think I'll leave this alone for the moment, and we can see what (if 
any) problems surface.



