# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck -s should not imply -d

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-01-13T12:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110113123336.GA25033@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110113123336.GA25033@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/19-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/01/13/12-34-00)

On Jan 11 14:26, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 11/01/2011 08:10, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > I wasn't quite sure either, but while running cygcheck with Jon's patch
> > it started to make more sense.  We can also change the docs to ask for
> > `cygcheck -svrd' output, but I guess we should just wait and see.
>
>
> FWIW (I don't have all packages installed), mutt is the only package I have
> installed for which cygcheck -c falsely reports a problem.
>
> $ cygcheck -c | grep -v OK
> Cygwin Package Information
> Package                        Version                  Status
> mutt                           1.5.20-1                 Incomplete


Do you happen to know why?

> Would a patch to http://cygwin.com/setup.html be welcome recommending that:
> (a) if a package installs files which a user is expected to customize, don't
> trample over those customizations when the package is upgraded/reinstalled


Isn't that what /etc/defaults and /etc/postinstall is for, basically?
I'm not sure I understand what you're proposing.  At which point should
setup warn and how is it supposed to know that a file is a
user-customizable one?  In theory, that's all in the responsibility
of the package.

> (b) a package should verify as correctly installed with cygcheck -c?


I don't understand this, sorry.  Would you mind to rephrase and maybe
give an example what you mean?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


