# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck -s should not imply -d

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-01-13T13:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110113132437.GB25033@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110113132437.GB25033@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/19-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/01/13/13-24-00)

On Jan 13 13:04, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 13/01/2011 12:33, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan 11 14:26, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > On 11/01/2011 08:10, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > I wasn't quite sure either, but while running cygcheck with Jon's patch
> > > > it started to make more sense.  We can also change the docs to ask for
> > > > `cygcheck -svrd' output, but I guess we should just wait and see.
> > >
> > >
> > > FWIW (I don't have all packages installed), mutt is the only package I have
> > > installed for which cygcheck -c falsely reports a problem.
> > >
> > > $ cygcheck -c | grep -v OK
> > > Cygwin Package Information
> > > Package                        Version                  Status
> > > mutt                           1.5.20-1                 Incomplete
> >
> >
> > Do you happen to know why?
>
>
> You can read my ill-informed speculation about this matter at [1] :-)
>
> [1] http://sourceware.org/ml/cygwin-apps/2010-11/msg00065.html


Uh, ok.  Thanks for the pointer.

> > > Would a patch to http://cygwin.com/setup.html be welcome recommending that:
> > > (a) if a package installs files which a user is expected to customize, don't
> > > trample over those customizations when the package is upgraded/reinstalled
> >
> >
> > Isn't that what /etc/defaults and /etc/postinstall is for, basically?
> > I'm not sure I understand what you're proposing.  At which point should
> > setup warn and how is it supposed to know that a file is a
> > user-customizable one?  In theory, that's all in the responsibility
> > of the package.
>
>
> Sorry, that URL isn't very helpfully named.  I'm not proposing to change
> setup.exe, I'm just suggesting adding some text to the 'Cygwin Package
> Contributor's Guide' web page, recommending those things. (I only became aware
> of the existence of /etc/defaults by looking at what other packages do, I
> can't see it mentioned on that page)


Ouch.  Sorry about that.  Yes, sure, it would surely be welcome
to see progress in the docs, too.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


