# Re: [Patch] regtool: Add load/unload commands and --binary option

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Peshansky <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **Date** | 2006-01-25T23:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.63.0601251753110.839@access1.cims.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.63.0601251753110.839@access1.cims.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/20-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/01/25/23-02-00)

On Wed, 25 Jan 2006, Brian Dessent wrote:

> Christian Franke wrote:
>
> > At least when regtool is used interactively, it is IMO not very useful
> > to have modem-line-noise-like output for REG_BINARY, but human
> > readable output for the other value types. But this is the current
> > behavior of "regtool get ...".
>
>
> Instead of an explicit -b flag, perhaps it should just call isatty() and
> if being run interactively, output human readable hex dump, otherwise
> output raw binary.


What if you want to redirect the hex dump to a file?  IMO, isatty() checks
are only useful if the output won't change qualitatively on redirection
(e.g., for coloring).  Otherwise, it's always better to use an explicit
flag.

That said, attempting to "regtool get" a binary value is no different from
attempting to cat a binary file -- and we're not changing "cat" to output
hex dumps.  What would be useful instead is a way to query the type of a
value via regtool.  We could also add a "-h" (for --human-readable) flag
to always output the value in human-readable form (see below).

FWIW, 'A=`regtool get KEY1\\VAL`; regtool set KEY2\\VAL "$A"' will already
break for REG_MULTI_SZ type values.  It would be good to make regtool's
behavior consistent: "regtool set -f FILE" reads the value from FILE,
which would work for all value types.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_	    pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu | igor@watson.ibm.com
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		Igor Peshansky, Ph.D. (name changed!)
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		old name: Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Las! je suis sot... -Mais non, tu ne l'es pas, puisque tu t'en rends compte."
"But no -- you are no fool; you call yourself a fool, there's proof enough in
that!" -- Rostand, "Cyrano de Bergerac"


