# Re: [PATCH 7/7] Cygwin: remove miscellaneous 32-bit code

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2022-06-09T15:04:29-04:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [97cc06bf-913b-864f-673d-71dc8dfbc64c@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/97cc06bf-913b-864f-673d-71dc8dfbc64c@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/26/19-17-40.thread.md#:~:text=2022/06/09/19-04-29)

On 6/9/2022 12:00 PM, Yaakov Selkowitz wrote:
> On Thu, 2022-06-09 at 17:23 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On May 29 17:26, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > On 5/29/2022 9:39 AM, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 26/05/2022 20:17, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > > >    winsup/cygwin/autoload.cc                | 136 ---------------------
> > > > > --
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Looks good.
> > > >
> > > > I think that perhaps the stdcall decoration number n is unused on
> > > > x86_64, so can be removed also in a followup?
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks, I missed that.
> > >
> > > Also, I guess most or all of the uses of __stdcall and __cdecl can be
> > > removed from the code.
> >
> >
> > Yes, that's right, given there's only one calling convention on 64 bit.
> >
> > I have a minor objection in terms of this patch.
> >
> > When implementing support for AMD64, there were basically 2 problems to
> > solve. One of them was to support 64 bit systems, the other one was to
> > support AMD64.  At that time, only IA-64 and AMD64 64 bit systems
> > existed, and since we never considered IA-64 to run Cygwin on, we
> > subsumed all 64 bit code paths under the __x86_64__ macro.
> >
> > But should we *ever* support ARM64, as unlikely as it is, we have to
> > make sure to find all the places where the code is specificially AMD64.
> > That goes, for instance, for all places calling assembler code, or
> > for exception handling accessing CPU registers, etc.
> >
> > I'm open to discussion, but I think the code being CPU-specific
> > should still be enclosed into #ifdef __x86_64__ brackets, with an
> > #else #error alternative.
> >
> > Right?  Wrong?  Useless complication?
>
>
> Highly recommended.


OK, I'll make that change.

Ken


