# Re: [PATCH v2 0/1] Fix PTY state management in pseudo console support.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2019-09-02T13:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [da0ea694-93ff-4703-e7fc-c92f02e04f7c@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/da0ea694-93ff-4703-e7fc-c92f02e04f7c@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/31/22-55-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2019/09/02/13-10-00)

On 9/1/2019 5:53 PM, Takashi Yano wrote:
> Hi Ken,
>
> Thank you for testing.
>
> On Sun, 1 Sep 2019 15:13:47 +0000
> Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 8/31/2019 6:54 PM, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > Pseudo console support in test release TEST: Cygwin 3.1.0-0.3,
> > > introduced by commit 169d65a5774acc76ce3f3feeedcbae7405aa9b57,
> > > has some bugs which cause mismatch between state variables and
> > > real pseudo console state regarding console attaching and r/w
> > > pipe switching. This patch fixes this issue by redesigning the
> > > state management.
> >
> >
> > After applying this patch, I get the following in mintty:
> >
> > $ cygcheck -cd | grep bash
> > grep: write error: Bad file descriptor
> >
> > Further commands after that lead to the cursor jumping around.
>
>
> I have fixed this problem. I will post it as v3 patch soon.
>
> > Here's a second glitch I've noticed (starting with commit
> > 169d65a5774acc76ce3f3feeedcbae7405aa9b57): In emacs, if I run a command that
> > uses compilation mode, the output displayed in the compilation buffer starts
> > with ^[[H^[[J.  Here ^[ is the escape character, so this is apparently the two
> > ANSI escape sequences ESC[H and ESC[J.
> >
> > Sample commands that use compilation mode are 'M-x compile', 'M-x rgrep', and
> > 'M-x find-name-directory'.  I can provide more detailed reproduction
> > instructions if you're not an emacs user.
>
>
> Hmmm, it seems that ANSI escape sequences are not recognized in emacs.
>
> > 'M-x find-name-directory'
>
> Do you mean find-name-dired ?


Yes.

Ken


