# Re: [PATCH] clock_nanosleep(2), pthread_condattr_[gs]etclock(3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-07-21T19:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110721190910.GU15150@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110721190910.GU15150@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/01-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/07/21/19-09-00)

On Jul 21 13:59, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Thu, 2011-07-21 at 11:35 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jul 21 11:21, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > No, you're not at all off-base.  Personally I'd prefer to use the native
> > > NT timer functions, but that's not important.
> >
>
>
> No problem, that's something I keep forgetting about.
>
> > > What I'm missing is a way to specify relative vs. absolute timeouts in
> > > your above sketch.  I guess we need a flag argument as well.
> >
>
>
> Working on this last night, I decided to make the timeout a LONGLONG of
> 100ns units instead, positive for absolute and negative for relative.


Good idea.  The value can be immediately used in NtSetTimer and it
can be used for testing.

> > Btw., if you call NtQueryTimer right before NtCancelTimer, then you get
> > the remaining time for free to return to clock_nanosleep.  It would
> > be nice if NtQueryTimer would return the remaining time after calling
> > NtCancelTimer, but my experiments show that some weird value gets
> > returned.  See my attached testcase.  Build with -lntdll.
>
>
> Thanks, that was the piece I was missing last night.


Just ignore the bug in the while expression, please...


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


