# Re: [PATCH] gprof profiling of multi-threaded Cygwin programs, ver 2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-02-23T10:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160223105615.GA5618@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160223105615.GA5618@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/02/23/10-56-00)

On Feb 22 22:58, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Mon, 22 Feb 2016, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > One is, for completeness it would be nice if you could add a
> > description to the git comment along the lines of your original
> > comment so we have a description in the log.
>
>
> Sorry, can't parse this; git newbie here.  Did you mean the 'git commit' I'm
> doing to my private repository and the message associated with the commit?


Yes, exactly.

> And by "original comment" do you mean what I called the change log in the
> text of my v2 email we're discussing (i.e., not the patch attachment but the
> email body)?


No, I mean the first patch submission.  Your v1 patch submission had a
nice explaining text.  It might be helpful to have this text (tweaked to
the v2 changes) in the git log, together with the ChangeLog.

> > The other point is:
> > > +		long divisor = 100000;	// the power of 10 bigger than PID_MAX
> >
> >
> > I've seen 6 digit PIDs.  In fact, we're not that tight on space here
> > so we should err on the side of caution and leave room for the entire
> > possible size of a Windows PID.  That's a LONG, 32 bit, 10 decimal
> > digits.
>
>
> Yikes.  I'd seen large 5-digit pids but could not find a definitive symbol
> defining Windows' maximum pid value.  So I will change divisor's init value
> to 1000*1000*1000 which will allow the conversion loop to support 10-digit
> pids.


ACK.

> > Other than that, the patch looks good to me.
>
>
> Great!  I'll follow up with Jon separately (to the list) on his comments.


Yup.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
