# Re: Workaround patch for MS CLOSE_WAIT bug

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-16T00:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020416090632.E6120@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020416090632.E6120@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/12-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/16/00-06-00)

On Mon, Apr 15, 2002 at 12:19:49PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > How can you second that 100% and then talk about how people have to
> > change ther code to accomodate cygwin?  
>
> I second 100% that it's best to find a solution that avoids the MS 
> bug without requiring any change from Unix.
> Meanwhile nobody "has to" do anything as a result of including
> my proposal. 
> I hope this discussion will generate better approaches.


I think there's only one approach which would allow applications
to run without special Cygwin patches.  When duplicating a socket,
Cygwin needs to know the parent-child relationship between the
sockets.  When closing a socket, the DLL has to check, if there's
still a child socket left open.  If so, the socket isn't closed
but moved into a "still-to-close" queue (like the delqueue) until
all child sockets are closed.  The same for the application itself.
If exit() has been called, Cygwin has to keep the application in a
zombie-like state until the child sockets have been closed.

The problem is that this requires a parent-child communication
which isn't implemented yet.  This would be a job for the Cygwin
daemon.

Does that invalidate Pierre's approach?  I don't think so.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


