# Re: Workaround patch for MS CLOSE_WAIT bug

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-16T07:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020416145454.GB32707@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020416145454.GB32707@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/12-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/16/07-54-00)

On Tue, Apr 16, 2002 at 09:06:32AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mon, Apr 15, 2002 at 12:19:49PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > How can you second that 100% and then talk about how people have to
> > > change ther code to accomodate cygwin?  
> >
> > I second 100% that it's best to find a solution that avoids the MS 
> > bug without requiring any change from Unix.
> > Meanwhile nobody "has to" do anything as a result of including
> > my proposal. 
> > I hope this discussion will generate better approaches.
>
>
> I think there's only one approach which would allow applications
> to run without special Cygwin patches.  When duplicating a socket,
> Cygwin needs to know the parent-child relationship between the
> sockets.  When closing a socket, the DLL has to check, if there's
> still a child socket left open.  If so, the socket isn't closed
> but moved into a "still-to-close" queue (like the delqueue) until
> all child sockets are closed.  The same for the application itself.
> If exit() has been called, Cygwin has to keep the application in a
> zombie-like state until the child sockets have been closed.
>
> The problem is that this requires a parent-child communication
> which isn't implemented yet.  This would be a job for the Cygwin
> daemon.
>
> Does that invalidate Pierre's approach?  I don't think so.


I don't see why a daemon is needed.  There is already parent/child
communication going on without the daemon.

cgf


