# Re: [Patch] Deimpersonate while accessing HKLM

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Ford <ford@vss.fsi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-28T16:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.58.0410281157530.2216@fordpc.vss.fsi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.58.0410281157530.2216@fordpc.vss.fsi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/28/16-59-00)

On Wed, 27 Oct 2004, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:

> This patch should fix the chdir problem reported by Jason Tishler.
> It deimpersonates while reading the mounts and cygdrive in HKLM.
>
> For ease of initialization, the unused cygheap->user tokens are
> now set to NO_IMPERSONATION (instead of INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE),
> which is #defined as NULL.
> If the argument of cygwin_set_impersonation_token() is
> INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE, it is changed to NO_IMPERSONATION.


This may very well be user error, but I thought it important to report.
After compiling current CVS I get a slew of:

53 [main] sh 3064 cygheap_user::reimpersonate: ImpersonateLoggedOnUser:
Win32 error 6

So, I thought I'd do a clean build.  Then I get:

../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c: In function `fibheap_union':
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c:166: warning: implicit declaration of
function `free'
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c: In function `fibheap_delete_node':
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c:285: error: `LONG_MIN' undeclared (first
use in this function)
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c:285: error: (Each undeclared identifier
is reported only once
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c:285: error: for each function it appears
in.)
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c: In function `fibheap_consolidate':
../../cygwin/libiberty/fibheap.c:395: warning: implicit declaration of
function `memset'

which I'm sure has nothing to do with this patch.

I'll look deeper when I have more time.  Thanks.

-- 
Brian Ford
Senior Realtime Software Engineer
VITAL - Visual Simulation Systems
FlightSafety International
the best safety device in any aircraft is a well-trained pilot...


