# Re: Cygwin Filesystem Performance degradation 1.7.5 vs 1.7.7, and methods for improving performance

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-09-10T15:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100910150840.GD16534@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100910150840.GD16534@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/09-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/09/10/15-09-00)

On Sep  6 15:24, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > - GetVolumeInfo: The C:\ drive does not tend to be changed every
> > millisecond! Therefore no reason for every filesystem syscall to
> > call it. Caching this further increased the performance.
>
>
> Does your FS caching take volume mount points into account?


We had some filesystem caching back in Cygwin 1.5 already, but the new
code in symlink_info::check and fs_info::update was supposed to make it
unnecessary.

However, I created a new caching mechanism now, which requires only a
single NtQueryVolumeInformationFile call and then uses the result for a
hash.  I also tested a method which uses the object name of the
underlying NT device as key for the hash, but it's actually ~10% slower
than using the content of the FILE_FS_VOLUME_INFORMATION structure
returned by NtQueryVolumeInformationFile(..., FileFsVolumeInformation).
That's a rather unexpected result, but that's Windows.

> > - File security check: GetSecurityInfo() is implemented in Windows
> > in usermode dll (Advapi32.dll). It calls at the end
> > NtQuerySecurityObject(). So I implemented a faster version:
> > zGetSecurityInfo() which does the same... just faster.
>
>
> Does your code preserve the inheritance entries which are available via
> GetSecurityInfo?  Note that I don't care at all for the GetSecurityInfo
> API from a usage POV.  I would prefer to use NtQuerySecurityObject
> directly.  However, the sole reason for using GetSecurityInfo is the
> fact that NtQuerySecurityObject only returns the plain ACL as it's
> stored for the file.  It does not return the ACEs which are inherited
> from the parent objects.  These are only available via GetSecurityInfo,
> or by checking the parent ACLs manually.


This turned out to be total nonsense.  The actual reason to use
GetSecurityInfo was the fact that it's the only function which sets the
INHERITED_ACE flag, as my comment in get_file_sd tells everybody who's
willing to read.  So I read that now, too.

A bit of looking through the code shows that the INHERITED_ACE flag is
*only* required if a file has just been created (see alloc_sd).  So only
the call to set_file_attribute in fhandler_base::open() really needs
these flags.

What I did now was to extend get_file_sd to call GetSecurityInfo only in
this case, while every other call to get_file_sd will actually just call
NtQuerySecurityObject, which is obviously faster because it doesn't have
to check the parent ACL.  Additionally I changed the allocation for the
security_descriptor structure so that it's allocated big enough and only
a single call to NtQuerySecurityObject is performed, rather than two.

Other than that I  have another patch in the loop which stores file
information from symlink_info::check to reuse them in calls to stat,
to drop another OS call.  This needs a bit more testing, though.

All in all the number of OS calls accessing "foo" in a single `ls -l
foo' call has dropped from 18 to 12.  `stat foo' needed 10  before,
now it needs 8 or 7, depending on the fs caching state.  `ls -lR'
on a Samba drive now is almost 30% faster.

What I'm still mulling over is a good idea to re-use the results of a
former call to readdir in a stat call.  One problem here is to make sure
that a subsequent stat call is *really* accessing the same file as the
former readdir returned.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


