# Re: Problems on accessing Windows network resources

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2003-07-14T19:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3F1302A9.85728D65@ieee.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3F1302A9.85728D65@ieee.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/00-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/07/14/19-20-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> On Mon, Jul 14, 2003 at 01:32:56PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > After researching the issue, all cygwin routines I could find (not
> > only those ntsec related) initialize their handles to NULL, except
> > subauth() and create_token(). Those exceptions make sense because
> > those two must return INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE on error.
> >
> > The patch itself avoids initializing any handle (avoiding ambiguity),
> > except the usual automatic initialization to 0 of the cygheap stuff.
> >
> > Do you want my patch anyway (reverting what you have just applied),
> > or do we leave things as they are?
>
>
> INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE is also used to initialize local variables.
> I'd like to keep that value if you don't mind.


Turns out you are doing just the opposite of what I would have done, 
but it's arbitrary anyway.

There is one slight problem, in seteuid32
/* Set process def dacl to allow access to impersonated token */ 
     if (cygheap->user.current_token != new_token) 
If the current_token is INVALID_.. (i.e. no impersonation), and there
is no change, new_token will be ptok (temporarily). Thus the test
will succeed when it should fail.

One way out is to:
- not initialize the local variable new_token
- set new_token to INVALID_.. if verifying ptok succeeds
- add a final else clause to the verify chain
```
     else
       new_token = NULL;
```

- call create_token (and? subauth) if new_token == NULL

That also allows to remove the test in
cygheap->user.current_token = new_token == ptok ? INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE 
                                                     : new_token; 

Now that I have done it anyway, I will send you a cleaned up version
of verify_token (unrelated to token initialization).

Pierre


