# Re: [PATCH] Only construct ucontext for SA_SIGINFO signal handlers

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon TURNEY <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-04-04T16:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [55200C4C.1010909@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/55200C4C.1010909@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/19-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/04/04/16-07-00)

On 03/04/2015 15:08, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Apr  3 13:51, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > On 03/04/2015 13:17, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Apr  3 13:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Apr  2 20:30, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > >
> > > > >         sigset_t this_oldmask = set_process_mask_delta ();
> > > > > -      thiscontext.uc_sigmask = this_oldmask;
> > > > > +      context.uc_sigmask = this_oldmask;
> > > >
> > > >           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> > > >
> > > > This call to set_process_mask_delta() should occur before constructing
> > > > the context, so that filling in uc_sigmask can be moved into the above
> > > > `'if' branch.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Ok, I will move it.
> >
> > > > On second thought, isn't this slightly wrong anyway?  Shouldn't that be
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >           context.uc_sigmask = _my_tls.sigmask;
> > > > 	 context.uc_mcontext.oldmask = this_oldmask;
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > As I wrote elsewhere:  You'll have to help me understand what the difference
> > in meaning between ucontext_t.uc_sigmask and ucontext_t.uc_mcontext.oldmask
> > is.
> >
> > I don't see how the value of _my_tls.sigmask has any meaning at that point
> > in the code.
>
>
> Ok, I had a look into the Linux source and searched the web, and here's
> the problem.
>
> One is that sigset_t on Linux is not just a 32 or 64 bit bitmask anymore,
> but an array of ulong's used as a rather big sigmask.
>
> OTOH, mcontext_t::oldmask is only the size of "unsigned long".  In fact,
> as it turns out by inspecting the Linux kernel, oldmask is nothing else
> than the first bits of uc_sigmask which fit into an unsigned long.  And
> in the net I found that oldmask is just the old representation of
> sigset_t, before the Linux kernel allowed more signals than fit into
> a bitmask of unsigned long size.  In fact, it's only for backward compat,
> but unused these days.
>
> Given that, setting context.uc_sigmask to this_oldmask is apparently
> the right thing to do.  For emulating backward compat (which we don't
> need, but it also doesn't hurt), we could set oldmask to the same
> value:
>
>    context.uc_sigmask = context.uc_mcontext.oldmask = this_oldmask;
>


Thank you very much for researching this.  I tried but wasn't able to 
discover anything much.

What you suggest seems right, so I'll make an updated patch including that.


