# Re: [Patch] Fix incorrect code page when setting console title on Win10

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-27T12:34:18+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200827123418.ab6d9a9a6157daa43aef1e5f@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200827123418.ab6d9a9a6157daa43aef1e5f@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/08-43-44.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/27/03-34-18)

On Wed, 26 Aug 2020 19:33:45 +0200
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug 26 09:30, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > On Wed, 26 Aug 2020, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > > On Aug 26 16:43, 宫大汉 via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > When Cygwin sets console titles on Win10 (has_con_24bit_colors &amp;&amp; !con_is_legacy),
> > > > `WriteConsoleA` is used and causes an error if:
> > > > 1. the environment variable of `LANG` is `***.UTF-8`
> > > > 2. and the code page of console.exe is not UTF-8
> > > > &nbsp; 1. e.g. on my Computer, it's GB2312, for Chinese text
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I've done some tests on msys2 and details are on https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/issues/2738,
> > > > and I filed a PR of https://github.com/git-for-windows/msys2-runtime/pull/25.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Just in case you want to have a look at it, you can download the patch via
> > https://github.com/git-for-windows/msys2-runtime/commit/334f52a53a2e6b7f560b0e8810b9f672ebb3ad24.patch
> >
> > FWIW my original reviewer comment was: "why not fix wpbuf.send() in the
> > first place?" but after having a good look around, that method seemed to
> > be called from so many places that I "got cold feet" of that approach.
> >
> > For one, I saw at least one caller that wants to send Escape sequences,
> > and I have no idea whether it is a good idea to do that in the `*W()`
> > version of the `WriteConsole()` function.
>
>
> Yes, it is.  There's no good reason to use the A functions, actually.
> They are just wrappers calling the W functions and WriteConsoleW
> evaluates ESC sequences just fine (just given as UTF-16 chars).
>
> > So the real question from my side is: how to address properly the many
> > uses of `WriteConsoleA()` (which breaks all kinds of encodings in many
> > situations because Windows' idea of the current code page and Cygwin's
> > idea of the current locale are pretty often at odds).
> >
> > The patch discussed here circumvents one of those call sites.
> >
> > However, even though there have not been any callers of `WriteConsoleA()`
> > in Cygwin v3.0.7 (but four callers of `WriteConsoleW()` which I suspect
> > were converted to `*A()` calls in v3.1.0 by the Pseudo Console patches),
> > there are now a whopping 15 callers of that `*A()` function in Cygwin
> > v3.1.7. See here:
> > [...]
> > That cannot be intentional, can it? We should always thrive to use the
> > `*W()` functions so that we can be sure that the expected encoding is
> > used, right?
>
>
> Takashi?  Any reason to use WriteConsoleA rather than WriteConsoleW?  If
> at all, WriteConsoleA should only be used if it's 100% safe to assume
> that the buffer only contains ASCII chars < 127.


No. I just did not realize that the escapce sequence cound contain
non-ASCII chars. I am sorry.

I will submit a patch for that issue.

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


