# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Disable pseudo console if TERM is dumb or not set.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-27T10:47:56+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200827084756.GU3272@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200827084756.GU3272@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/12-00-15.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/27/08-47-56)

On Aug 27 13:07, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Wed, 26 Aug 2020 19:36:06 +0200
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 26 21:00, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > Pseudo console generates escape sequences on execution of non-cygwin
> > > apps.  If the terminal does not support escape sequence, output will
> > > be garbled. This patch prevents garbled output in dumb terminal by
> > > disabling pseudo console.
> >
> >
> > I'm a bit puzzled by this patch.  We had code handling emacs and dumb
> > terminals explicitely in the early forms of the first incarnation of
> > the pseudo tty code, but fortunately you found a way to handle this
> > without hardcoding terminal types into Cygwin.  Why do you think we
> > have to do this now?
>
>
> What previously disccussed was the problem that the clearing
> screen at pty startup displays garbage (^[[H^[[2J) in emacs.
> Finally, this was settled by eliminating clear-screen and
> triggering redraw-screen instead at the first execution of
> non-cygwin app.
>
> However, the problem reported in
> https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2020-August/245983.html
> still remains. 
>
> What's worse in the new implementation, pseudo console sends
> ESC[6n (querying cursor position) internally on startup and
> waits for a response. This causes hang if pseudo console is
> started in dumb terminal.
>
> This patch is for fixing this issue.


Would it be feasible to implement this using a timeout instead?
If the response isn't sent within, say, 100ms, just skip it?


Corinna


