# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Disable pseudo console if TERM is dumb or not set.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-27T11:05:35+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200827090535.GB3272@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200827090535.GB3272@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/12-00-15.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/27/09-05-35)

On Aug 27 17:59, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Thu, 27 Aug 2020 10:47:56 +0200
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 27 13:07, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Wed, 26 Aug 2020 19:36:06 +0200
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Aug 26 21:00, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > > Pseudo console generates escape sequences on execution of non-cygwin
> > > > > apps.  If the terminal does not support escape sequence, output will
> > > > > be garbled. This patch prevents garbled output in dumb terminal by
> > > > > disabling pseudo console.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I'm a bit puzzled by this patch.  We had code handling emacs and dumb
> > > > terminals explicitely in the early forms of the first incarnation of
> > > > the pseudo tty code, but fortunately you found a way to handle this
> > > > without hardcoding terminal types into Cygwin.  Why do you think we
> > > > have to do this now?
> > >
> > >
> > > What previously disccussed was the problem that the clearing
> > > screen at pty startup displays garbage (^[[H^[[2J) in emacs.
> > > Finally, this was settled by eliminating clear-screen and
> > > triggering redraw-screen instead at the first execution of
> > > non-cygwin app.
> > >
> > > However, the problem reported in
> > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2020-August/245983.html
> > > still remains. 
> > >
> > > What's worse in the new implementation, pseudo console sends
> > > ESC[6n (querying cursor position) internally on startup and
> > > waits for a response. This causes hang if pseudo console is
> > > started in dumb terminal.
> > >
> > > This patch is for fixing this issue.
> >
> >
> > Would it be feasible to implement this using a timeout instead?
> > If the response isn't sent within, say, 100ms, just skip it?
>
>
> Hang is caused at CreateProcessW() call, so there is no way to
> use time out. It is possible to send ESC[6n before creating
> pseudo console for a test and wait for responce with timeout,
> however, if the terminal is dumb, garbage ^[[6n will be displayed.


Doesn't sound so great either.  That would slow down process
startup on dumb terminal a lot, right?

Ok, if you don't see any other way to fix that, I'll push that patch
in a while.


Thanks,
Corinna


