# Re: Minor additions to winbase.h and ntdll.def

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Earnie Boyd <earnie_boyd@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | Hartmut Honisch <hartmut_honisch@web.de> |
| **Date** | 2002-12-16T07:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DFDDE2B.7060202@yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DFDDE2B.7060202@yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/16/07-07-00)

Hartmut Honisch wrote:
> > > Winbase.h
> > > - Changed NMPWAIT_WAIT_FOREVER constant from (-1) to 0xffffffff (like in
> >
> >
> > Why?
>
>
>
> I have a piece of own code that passes NMPWAIT_WAIT_FOREVER as a parameter
> to CallNamedPipe. The compiler gave me a warning because the function
> prototype expected a DWORD value which by definition cannot be negative. So
> it's obviously a (minor) bug in cygwin's header files, which I thought the
> cygwin folks might be interested in to fix.
>


They just happen to be used in Cygwin and just happen to be CVSed in the 
winsup/w32api directory, but the MinGW team maintain them.

>
> > Looking at Microsoft's header files and making changes to w32api is not
> > allowed.
>
>
>
> Technically, I didn't do it that way. I just mentioned that to avoid
> discussions like that one, since cygwin's headers shouldn't differ from
> Microsoft's headers regarding the value of numeric constants.
>


Such differences help provide defense to copyright enfringement claims.

>
> > You'll have to find the MSDN documentation and provide the
> > references.
>
>
>
> There are no references in MSDN that show the numeric value of that
> constant - at least I can't find any. So I wonder how (-1) got there in the
> first place.
>


Then, your patch can't be accepted.  The foremost prerequisite for 
changes to the w32api is the documentation that warrants the change. 
Here is an example of a proper bug report.

<quote>
Bugs item #653761, was opened at 2002-12-14 17:19
You can respond by visiting:
https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&atid=102435&aid=653761&group_id=2435

Category: w32api
Group: None
Status: Open
Resolution: None
Priority: 5
Submitted By: Dimitri Papadopoulos (dimitri_at)
Assigned to: Earnie Boyd (earnie)
Summary: missing CPLPAGE_*

Initial Comment:
Header cplext.h defines only:
CPLPAGE_MOUSE_BUTTONS 1
CPLPAGE_MOUSE_PTRMOTION 2
CPLPAGE_KEYBOARD_SPEED 1

The following are missing from w32api:
CPLPAGE_MOUSE_WHEEL
CPLPAGE_DISPLAY_BACKGROUND

Reference:
http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/shellcc/platform/shell/programmersguide/shell_int/shell_int_extending/extensionhandlers/propsheethandlers.asp#cpl 

</quote>

Dimitri could have supplied a patch but the information and 
documentation reference are still needed.

Earnie.


