# security.cc and sec_acl.cc (ntsec, inheritance and sec_acl)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-16T07:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DFDF1C4.575D6360@ieee.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DFDF1C4.575D6360@ieee.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/16/07-30-00)

Corinna,

Here are the changes to security.cc and sec_acl.cc to use 
well_known_creator_xxx_sid.
They seem to work fine on NT4.

There is peculiar effect: if a directory was created e.g. 427 by
a ntsec user with uid != gid and a file is created in the directory by
a Windows user with gid == uid, the file will inherit permissions 447.

I have a question: there is code in setacl (new line 139) to merge non-default
ACE's with previous default ACEs.
As the acl was sorted, I don't see how that code can ever be exercised. 
Should we try to merge default ACEs with non-default ones? I am not sure it's 
worth it.

Pierre 


2002/12/16  Pierre Humblet  <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* security.cc (alloc_sd): Change inheritance rules: on new directories add
	inherit only ACEs for creator_owner, creator_group and everyone. Preserve
	all inheritances through chmod and chown calls. Modify implementation of 
	uid == gid case by introducing isownergroup, to simplify inheritance code. 
	Do not initialize owner_sid and group_sid and stop using psd.
	* sec_acl.cc (search_ace): Make id == -1, instead of < 0, special.
	(setacl): Use well_known_creator for default owner and group.
	(getacl): Recognize well_known_creator for default owner and group.
	(acl_worker): Improve errno settings and streamline nontsec case.


---

**Attachments:**

- [sec4.diff](sec4.diff) (text)
- [acl.diff](acl.diff) (text)
