# Re: [PATCH] to_slave pipe is full fix

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-16T19:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021217035114.GA12993@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021217035114.GA12993@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/12-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/16/19-51-00)

On Mon, Dec 16, 2002 at 04:47:04PM -0600, Steve O wrote:
> On Mon, Dec 16, 2002 at 02:36:29PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Dec 16, 2002 at 01:15:54PM -0600, Steve O wrote:
> > -             SetEvent (input_available_event);
> > -             ReleaseMutex (input_mutex);
> > -             Sleep (10);
> > -             rc = WaitForSingleObject (input_mutex, INFINITE);
> > ```
> > +             puts_readahead (p, bytes_left);
> > +             ret = 0;
> > +             break;
> >
> > Won't this introduce a spinning situation since you are no longer
> > ```
> >
> > sleeping?  
>
>
> The 'break;' should pop us out of the loop.  Did I miss a control
> structure?  The idea of the patch at least, was to bail out of a write
> if the pipe is full.  


Ok.  I see what you're doing now.  The puts_readahead is taking the
"overfill" to the pipe.

> > Were we really inappropriately waiting for the input_mutex in
> > this case?
>
>
> For the case where the application expects the write to not block,
> it seems inappropriate to wait.  For the case where the application
> does a blocking write, the WriteFile should do the blocking and, unless
> there is a problem, write all the bytes.
>
> In fact, looking at it some more, the accept_input while loop is 
> superfluous.  Sorry I missed that.  


Hmm.  You're right.  I didn't notice that.  I was still getting my
head around your changes.  I've applied your patch and reorganized it.

One more question, though.  In accept_input, shouldn't ret be set to
something besides 1 when there is an "error writing to pipe"?

I wonder if there is some other way to do this other than pulling
everything out of the read ahead buffer and then putting it back on
failure.  I guess it doesn't matter since this is an edge condition.

Hmm.  I wonder if the WaitForSingleObject (input_mutex,...) is enough to
make this code thread safe.  I always meant to revisit thread issues here
but maybe Egor helped me out with the introduction of the input_mutex.

Applied.  Thanks.

cgf


