# Re: [PATCH 0/3] Add more winsymlinks values

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-07-29T12:40:04+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YQKFhJE6jhPy5xCD@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YQKFhJE6jhPy5xCD@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/16-31-31.thread.md#:~:text=2021/07/29/10-40-04)

On Jul 29 12:23, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul 28 20:55, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 22/07/2021 15:21, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jul 22 14:53, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > [1] https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2020-August/245994.html
> > >
> > >
> > > Did nobody ask the Docker guys why they fail to support perfectly
> > > valid reparse points?
> >
> >
> > It seems so e.g. [1]. The answer isn't much beyond "yes, that doesn't work",
> > though.
> >
> > [1] https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/41058#issuecomment-692968944
>
>
> D'oh!
>
> > > > I haven't yet looked at adding 'native' symlink support to setup itself, but
> > > > it's probably going to be a bit of a pain.
> > >
> > >
> > > That may be not a bad idea after all.  Setup typically runs as elevated
> > > process, so it has the required permissions to create native symlinks.
> > > Scripts could then run with CYGWIN=winsymlinks:native by default.
> > >
> > > As long as nobody has the hare-brained idea to move a Cygwin distro
> > > manually, native symlinks should be just as well as Cygwin symlinks.
> >
> >
> > I'm pretty reluctant to add this to setup in any form which isn't initially
> > "keep doing what we currently do, unless you explicitly ask for symlinks to
> > be made a different way".  (especially since when we changed what we were
> > doing in Cygwin 3.1.5, it opened this whole can of worms)
> >
> > So I don't think that gets us any further forward if setup doesn't have
> > useful control over the kinds of symlinks made by post-install scripts.
>
>
> Ok, then, by all means, lets' add a few options to the CYGWIN=winsymlinks
> setting.  Just s/WSYM_magic/WSYM_sysfile/.


Also winsymlinks:sys or winsymlinks:sysfile

Thanks,
Corinna


