# The Return of Revenge of Son of the Speclib Strikes Back :)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-04-18T13:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [49E9DB61.2040506@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/49E9DB61.2040506@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/04/18/13-43-00)

[ Let's try again in the right place, shall we? ]

  The new speclibs libraries work great, but there's one piece of
unanticipated fallout: the libtool func_win32_libid() tests can no longer
identify them as import libraries.  Which is fair enough, since they aren't,
they are now indirect references to import libraries; but we want it to treat
them the same anyway.

  Here's one possible approach: I add a dummy member to the archives just in
order to trip libtool's "nm | grep ' I '" test.  I repurposed the
as-far-as-I-can-tell currently unused "--static" option to speclib to mean
"bodily shove this object into the generated library".

  As usual, I don't speak perl good, which is why I add $static to the
%extract hash before invoking ar and remove it again afterward.  If I just
unconditionally tagged ", $static" on the end of the invocation, it would fail
if no --static option was supplied, giving ar an empty string as an argv
member, and I didn't know how to conditionally add it as an argument only when
defined, so it was either this or cut-and-paste two versions of the
invocation, one mentioning $static and the other not, with an if defined
$static to choose between them; I would welcome being shown a better way to do
this if there is one.

  I'm currently putting the attached through a full build / install/ rebuild
DLL, binutils and gcc cycle, but it already fixed the failure to build libjava
as a DLL that I've been getting on GCC HEAD with the new speclib libraries.

  What do you think?  Reasonable approach?  Reasonable implementation?
Problems with either?  Ok for head?

winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog

```
	* magicimportsym.s:  New file.
	* Makefile.in (speclib):  Add --static option to invocation
	naming magicimportsym.o
	(${CURDIR}/libc.a):  Add magicimportsym.o to dependencies.
	(${CURDIR}/libm.a):  Likewise.
	(libpthread.a):  Likewise.
	(libutil.a):  Likewise.
	(libdl.a):  Likewise.
	(libresolv.a):  Likewise.
	* speclib:  Repurpose --static option to add an archive member
	unconditionally.

    cheers,
      DaveK

```




---

**Attachments:**

- [magic-import-symbol-patch.diff](magic-import-symbol-patch.diff) (text)
