# Re: The Return of Revenge of Son of the Speclib Strikes Back :)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-04-18T18:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [49EA242B.9020504@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/49EA242B.9020504@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/04/18/18-53-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Apr 18, 2009 at 02:53:37PM +0100, Dave Korn wrote:
>
> > The new speclibs libraries work great, but there's one piece of
> > unanticipated fallout: the libtool func_win32_libid() tests can no
> > longer identify them as import libraries.  Which is fair enough, since
> > they aren't, they are now indirect references to import libraries; but
> > we want it to treat them the same anyway.
>
>
> I can guess why that is, but it would be nice if you didn't jump right
> to a solution and provided more details.


  Sorry, thought that might be enough.  For the sake of the archives:  We want
to treat these as import libraries, because otherwise libtool says:

```
*** Warning: linker path does not have real file for library -ldl.
*** I have the capability to make that library automatically link in when
*** you link to this library.  But I can only do this if you have a
*** shared version of the library, which you do not appear to have
```

```
*** because I did check the linker path looking for a file starting
*** with libdl and none of the candidates passed a file format test
*** using a file magic. Last file checked: /lib/libdl.a

  We do in fact have a shared version of the library, since anything in a
```

speclib library refers to a function in the Cygwin DLL.  But because the stubs
in the speclib libraries only indirect to the actual import symbol, libtool
doesn't realise this; the library itself doesn't import anything, and
libtool's test is based on grepping the output of nm to look for a symbol with
" I " in the type field.

> > As usual, I don't speak perl good,
>
>
> So, please don't bother sending perl patches.  I can get enough out of
> the description of what is wrong and what your possible solution might
> be to figure out what needs to be done without seeing your
> proof-of-concept.


  Well, it's either harmless extra information, or it will actually clarify
any ambiguities that might exist in my description, so it can't hurt and may
in the event that I mis-speak actually do some good.  There's certainly not
supposed to be any obligation on you to debug it or anything.

> I checked something in which adds a dummy object custom-tailored to the
> each library.
>
> Thanks for the report.


```
  Thanks for the fix!

    cheers,
      DaveK
```



