# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Cygwin: don't allow getpgrp() to fail

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2019-07-24T15:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [03431b8b-22aa-d288-aa11-87a9feedfb44@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/03431b8b-22aa-d288-aa11-87a9feedfb44@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/16-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/07/24/15-04-00)

On 7/23/2019 3:16 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul 23 19:07, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 23/07/2019 17:54, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Ken,
> > >
> > > On Jul 23 16:12, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > > According to POSIX, "The getpgrp() function shall always be successful
> > > > and no return value is reserved to indicate an error."  Cygwin's
> > > > getpgrp() is defined in terms of getpgid(), which is allowed to fail.
> > >
> > >
> > > But it shouldn't fail for the current process.  Why should pinfo::init
> > > fail for myself if it begins like this?
> > >
> > > ```
> > >     if (myself && n == myself->pid)
> > >       {
> > >         procinfo = myself;
> > >         destroy = 0;
> > >         return;
> > >       }
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > I fear this patch would only cover up the problem still persisting
> > > under the hood.
> >
> >
> > I agree.
> >
> > There is presumably a class of programs which require getpgrp() to return
> > the correct value for correct operation, which cannot be 0 (since that
> > cannot be a pid).
>
>
> However, did we ever see this problem outside of GDB?


I think I've found the problem, as I just reported on the main cygwin list.  And 
I agree that my patch was misguided.

But I still think getpgrp() should be changed, perhaps by having it just return 
myself->pgid as you suggested earlier.  There's no point in having getpgrp() 
call getpgid(), which does error checking, when POSIX specifically says "no 
return value [of getpgrp()] is reserved to indicate an error".  POSIX-compatible 
applications should call getpgid(0) instead of getpgrp() if they want to do 
error checking.

I'll send a couple of patches, one for this issue and one for the tcsetpgrp() 
problem, so that we can discuss it further.

Ken


