# Re: Patch to syscalls.cc for statfs/df problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Paulus <mark.paulus@wcom.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-12T06:40:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [0GA300J0UA1I0V@pmismtp04.wcomnet.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0GA300J0UA1I0V@pmismtp04.wcomnet.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/12-55-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/12/06-40-00)

I re-worked it some more over the weekend, and have some new
code.  Should I submit it via this forum again?  And, if so, 
should I diff against the original code, or against my latest patch?

A bit more clarification.  It appears to be working more correct
now.  My one wierdness seems to occur when I try to do a statfs 2 or
more times against a SAMBA drive.  The first statfs call looks
like it returns good values.  But the second call seems to 
return some bogus stuff.  This is under WinME.  I don't have a way
to test Win2K to SAMBA (I only have WinME and Linux 
boxes at home, and only have Win2K and OS/2 boxes at work).


On Fri, 09 Mar 2001 23:32:37 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Fri, Mar 09, 2001 at 01:52:07PM -0700, Mark Paulus wrote:
> > Enclosed is a patch to syscalls.cc which enables the use of
> > the GetDiskFreeSpaceEx call in statfs().  It seems to work
> > in my environment, except for one small problem.  It appears 
> > that under WinME, it does not recognize the free space of 
> > network mounted drives that have over 2GB of free space:
> > e.g.
> >
> > in dos:
> > net use j: \\server\use
> >
> > in cygwin:
> > mount j:/ /jdrive
> >
> > if you then do a df, and J: has more than 2GB free, then 
> > it will show:
> > Filesystem           1k-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
> > j:                     2097120         0   2097120   0% /jdrive
> >
> > However, from the testing I have been able to do, it appears
> > this is a failure of the GetDiskFreeSpaceEx call...
>
>
> Hmmm, that's an interesting one. Is the network drive somehow
> using quotas, perhaps?
>
> Another one. Did you try your patch with UNC paths? I'm asking
> because MSDN states that UNC paths must end with a backslash
> when using this function (\\server\share\). It would be really
> nice if you could have a look.
>
> Thanks,
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.





