# Re: [PATCH] Possibly correct fix to strace phantom process entry

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-04-25T12:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170425122847.GB12712@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170425122847.GB12712@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/09-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/04/25/12-28-00)

On Apr 24 19:00, Daniel Santos wrote:
> On 04/24/2017 10:38 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > I'm going with my patch for now.  Mainly because I added some debug
> > output to see if we need the Sleep loop at all.  Right now I don't see
> > any situation which would qualify for this.
> >
> >
> > Thanks,
> > Corinna
>
>
> Thanks for your help on this Corinna!
>
> I'm inclined to agree about the sleep loop.  I have concerns about leaving
> these odd "ghost" process entries in and I have concerns about whacking them
> for all dynamic loads of cygwin1.dll. :)  The only cleaner solution that I
> can think of us to set an environment variable (or value in CYGWIN) to tell
> cygwin1.dll not to call pinfo::thisproc() in
> child_info_spawn::handle_spawn() -- that still feels like a bandaid.  (I
> suppose there's also using LoadLibraryEx and if there's some parameter we
> can pass to the DLL from there.)
>
> Incidentally, when I debug strace with gdb the problem does away. Thus, I've
> been debugging this by littering the code with OutputDebugStringA()s,
> sometimes adding some Sleep delays, recompiling, exiting, restarting sshd,
> etc.  Is there an easier way to debug stuff like this?
>
> Either way, I want to better understand how all of the cases of how
> cygwin1.dll is loaded and processes are inited.  Searching the code, I see
> that cygcheck also uses LoadLibrary, as well as cygwin::connector::connector
> (const char *dll) (although I can't tell what that is for).
>
> I have to run, so I'll get back to this later.


I'm looking forward to any improvement in this area.


Thanks,
Cornna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
