# Re: [rebase PATCH] Introduce --merge-files (-M) flag (WAS: Introduce --no-rebase flag)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael Haubenwallner <michael.haubenwallner@ssi-schaefer.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-05-06T08:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [6d8331f7-d3f5-53e6-5e55-863f8eb01693@ssi-schaefer.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/6d8331f7-d3f5-53e6-5e55-863f8eb01693@ssi-schaefer.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/12/13-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/05/06/08-31-00)


On 5/4/19 4:33 PM, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2019-05-03 09:32, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > On 4/12/19 8:03 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Apr 12 15:52, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > The --no-rebase flag is to update the database for new files, without
> > >
> > > Wouldn't something like --merge-files be more descriptive?
> >
> > What about --recognize ?
>
>
> "The --recognize flag is to update the database for new files, without
> performing a rebase.  The file names provided should have been rebased
> using the --oblivious flag just before."
>
> Recognize does not mean record or update in English but see, identify, or
> acknowledge.
>
> Your earlier suggestion of --record, the verb used in the comment quoted above
> --update, or CV's suggestion --merge-files would make sense and be more
> descriptive.


On a first thought, "merge files" does have a different meaning in the Gentoo
context already, as in "merge files from staging directory into the live file
system".
However, on a second thought, "rebase --merge-files" is performed afterwards,
but still part of that "merge files" phase, so the name does actually fit.

Patch updated.

> I use such brief comments or descriptions as a guide to pick the most obvious
> names for functions, options, etc: if the comment or description then reads as
> if redundant, the choice is good.


Agreed, thanks!  (had --update or even --update-db in mind as well)
/haubi/


---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Introduce-merge-files-M-flag.patch](0001-Introduce-merge-files-M-flag.patch) (text)
