# Re: cygwin-doc html/ missing docbook.css and index dups cygwin-{api,ug-net}

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-04-22T09:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4b57d3a5-34bd-95f4-9a5c-a9ccebe10628@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4b57d3a5-34bd-95f4-9a5c-a9ccebe10628@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](09-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/04/22/09-30-00)

On 2017-04-22 02:59, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Brian,
> On Apr 20 21:00, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2017-04-19 15:47, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 19/04/2017 16:42, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > On 2017-04-19 04:58, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Apr 16 12:22, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > > > Could you please consider having setup-x86{,_64} install Windows
> > > > > > shortcuts to at least the UG .pdf and index.html if present, in
> > > > > > the .../Start Menu/Programs/Cygwin folder?
> > > > > > A Windows URL shortcut to https://cygwin.com would also be helpful
> > > > > > for some.
> > > > >
> > > > > That requires to change setup or to provide a postinstall script.
> > > > > Are you willing to provide the latter?
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > Darn - hoped you wouldn't ask - attached, and preremove (if not filtered).
> > Both tested on W10 without, and with CYGWINFORALL=-A and elevated/admin rights.
> > Comments or improvements you could suggest, or changes you need made?
>
>
> Only whitespace which I fixed locally.
>
> But this is going to become part of the Cygwin repo (the cygwin-docs 
> package is created from there), so I need a BSD copyright waiver
> from you. See https://cygwin.com/contrib.html and the CONTRIBUTORS
> file in the Cygwin repo:
> https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=winsup/CONTRIBUTORS;hb=HEAD


All my previous and subsequent contributions to Cygwin and related projects 
are provided subject to the the 2-clause BSD licence as below:

Copyright (c) <YEAR>, <OWNER>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
```
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

```

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada


---

**Attachments:**

- [0xB1871A93.asc](0xB1871A93.asc) (application)
- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
