# Re: [Patch] Fix gethwnd race

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-05-14T18:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040514180553.GB10458@coe.bosbc.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040514180553.GB10458@coe.bosbc.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/05/14/18-05-00)

On Fri, May 14, 2004 at 12:40:35PM -0500, Brian Ford wrote:
> On Fri, 14 May 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Fri, May 14, 2004 at 10:59:42AM -0500, Brian Ford wrote:
> > > I'll cook up a muto based solution in the next few minutes now
> > > that I understand your preference.  But, I'd like an opinion on the
> > > question above.
> >
> >
> > Thanks very much for the offer, but please don't bother.
>
>
> Ok, good.  I got sucked into an unscheduled meeting anyway.
>
> > I took this opportunity to do some of the cleanup that I was talking
> > about.  I also implemented a "close handle on final use" option to mutos
> > so that the event doesn't stay around after the final thread releases
> > it.
>
>
> That sounds like a nice, but difficult to get right enhancement.
>
> > I need to do a little debugging on what I have but it does try to clean
> > up the windows code slightly.  I even eliminated the thread event
> > synchronization entirely.
>
>
> I tried to do that but got stuck when I discovered you can't pass the
> return from CreateWindow in one thread to the GetMessage call in another.
>
> I look forward to seeing what you did and learning from it.  Thanks.


Well, maybe I didn't do anything, since that is exactly what I did after
investigating MSDN.  I thought I remembered that this was the case but
I couldn't see anything in MSDN which supported it.  I suppose I should
just have trusted Sergey on this one.

So, nevermind on this wonderful enhancement.

cgf


