# Re: proc(5) and xml version

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-11-16T13:07:21+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201116120721.GA41926@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201116120721.GA41926@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/14-25-17.thread.md#:~:text=2020/11/16/12-07-21)

Hi Brain,

On Nov 13 07:25, Brian Inglis wrote:
> Hacked a Cygwin proc.5 man page FMOI over time, by combing through
> fhandler_proc..., converted to proc-5.xml using doclifter, back with xmlto
> as in the build, man width 80 output from both, and diff (all attached).


Nice idea!

> Unsure how this might best be fitted into the distro (cygwin, cygwin-doc,
> ...?) and/or whether there may be xml remediation possible to generate
> verbatim output left justified with zero margin, and character value
> displays, the major output issues in the diff? Content feedback is also
> welcome.


This could replace the pathnames-proc and pathnames-proc-registry
sections in specialnames.xml. 

I think by using the refentry markup the man page would be generated
automagically, but Jon (CCed) is the definitiv source of wisdom here.

A few comments in terms of the content...

> The
> .I /proc/[pid]
> subdirectories are visible when iterating through
> .I /proc
> with
> .BR getdents (2)

      ^^^^^^^^

We don't have that system call.  readdir(2) is the matching, exposed API.

> .I /proc/[pid]/environ
> This read-only file contains the initial environment that was set
> when the currently executing program was started via
> .BR execve (2).


Neither Cygwin nor Windows maintain the initial environment.  What you
get is the current environment, with all changes performed by the process
itself.

> If, after an
> .BR execve (2),
> the process modifies its environment
> (e.g., by calling functions such as
> .BR putenv (3)
> or modifying the
> .BR environ (7)
> variable directly),
> this file will
> .I not
> reflect those changes.


Yeah, see above.

> .IR /proc/[pid]/mounts
> file, and fixes various other problems with that file
> (e.g., nonextensibility,
> failure to distinguish per-mount versus per-superblock options).
> .IP
> The file contains lines of the form:
> .IP
> .in 0n
> .EX
> 36 35 98:0 /mnt1 /mnt2 rw,noatime master:1 \- ext3 /dev/root rw,errors=continue
> (1)(2)(3)   (4)   (5)      (6)      (7)   (8) (9)   (10)         (11)
> .in
> .EE
> .IP
> The numbers in parentheses are labels for the descriptions below:
> .RS 7
> .TP 5
> (1)
> mount ID: a unique ID for the mount (may be reused after
> .BR umount (2)).
> .TP
> (2)
> parent ID: the ID of the parent mount
> (or of self for the root of this mount namespace's mount tree).


Has no meaning in Cygwin, it's just the same number as (1).

> If the parent mount point lies outside the process's root directory (see
> .BR chroot (2)),
> the ID shown here won't have a corresponding record in


That affects chroot as well.  I'd rather not mention this function
call anyway, it was a bad idea in the first place.

> .I mountinfo
> whose mount ID (field 1) matches this parent mount ID
> (because mount points that lie outside the process's root directory
> are not shown in
> .IR mountinfo ).
> As a special case of this point,
> the process's root mount point may have a parent mount
> (for the initramfs filesystem) that lies
> .\" Miklos Szeredi, Nov 2017: The hidden one is the initramfs, I believe
> .\" mtk: In the initial mount namespace, this hidden ID has the value 0
> outside the process's root directory,
> and an entry for that mount point will not appear in


I think this can entirely go away either.

> (7)
> optional fields: zero or more fields of the form "tag[:value]"; see below.


This field doesn't exist on Cygwin.  Do we have to update the output
to follow current Linux?

> .TP
> (8)
> separator: the end of the optional fields is marked by a single hyphen.


So that's field 7.

> .TP
> (9)
> filesystem type: the filesystem type in the form "type[.subtype]".


Field 8

> .TP
> (10)
> mount source: filesystem-specific information or "none".


Field 9

> .TP
> (11)
> super options: per-superblock options (see
> .BR mount (2)).


Field 10, always ro or rw, so it's just the info if the filesystem is
read-only or read-write

> .I /proc/[pid]/stat
> Status information about the process.
> This is used by
> .BR ps (1).


Only by ps from the procps package

> One of the following characters, indicating process state:
> .RS
> .IP R 3
> Runnable
> .IP O
> Running


We don't generate O, but I don't quite grok why.  There is a per-Thread
StateRunning state in Windows, so I don't see why the code doesn't just
use it.  A process with a single thread in StateRunning is running, no?

> .IP S
> Sleeping in an interruptible wait
> .IP D
> Waiting in uninterruptible
> disk sleep


We don't know the 'D' state.

> (14) \fIutime\fP \ %lu
> Amount of time that this process has been scheduled in user mode,
> measured in clock ticks (divide by
> .IR sysconf(_SC_CLK_TCK) ).


This includes Cygwin time.

> This includes guest time, \fIguest_time\fP
> (time spent running a virtual CPU, see below),
> so that applications that are not aware of the guest time field
> do not lose that time from their calculations.


The guest time hints should go away, I think.

> (16) \fIcutime\fP \ %ld
> (17) \fIcstime\fP \ %ld


Faked.

> (20) \fInum_threads\fP \ %ld
> Number of threads in this process.


Always 0, albeit we probably could print this info.

> This file is a symbolic link that points to the user's
> Windows mapped drive mount point, and behaves in the same way as
> .IR root .


I don't understand what you're trying to say here.

> Incidentally, this file may be used by
> .BR mount (8)
> when no filesystem is specified and it didn't manage to determine the
> filesystem type.
> Then filesystems contained in this file are tried
> (excepted those that are marked with "nodev").


Doesn't work that way on Cygwin

> .I /proc/sys
> This directory contains a number of files
> and subdirectories corresponding to kernel variables.
> These variables can be read using
> the \fI/proc\fP filesystem, and the (deprecated)
> .BR sysctl (2)
> system call.


This is wrong for Cygwin.  /proc/sys is kind of a mount point, pointing
into the native NT object namespace.  E.g., /proc/sys/GLOBAL?? is the
native NT directory containing native NT object namespace symlinks
constituting the DOS device names as returned by the QueryDosDevice
WinAPI call.  Global?? is the global subdir available to all sessions.
Session-specific ?? dirs exist

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/naming-a-file#nt-namespaces may be helpful here.

> These files list the System V Interprocess Communication (IPC) objects
> (respectively: message queues, semaphores, and shared memory)
> that currently exist on the system,
> providing similar information to that available via
> .BR ipcs (1).
> These files have headers and are formatted (one IPC object per line)
> for easy understanding.
>
> .BR svipc (7)
> provides further background on the information shown by these files.


This should be replaced with the info that the files in sysvipc
are only available if cygserver is running, just as SYSV ipc, too.

> This string identifies the kernel version that is currently running.

```
                             ^^^^^^
                             Cygwin
```

> .SH COLOPHON
> This page is part of version 3 of


I would skip that "of version 3" part

Other than these minor nits, this looks great!


Thanks,
Corinna


