# Re: experimental texmf packages

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Jan Nieuwenhuizen <janneke@gnu.org> |
| **Date** | 2001-12-12T03:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011212034800.Okddeh3w1bOFQI7e5kQUltyZ21OVaJ6Umb-nFmzvbLc@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011212034800.Okddeh3w1bOFQI7e5kQUltyZ21OVaJ6Umb-nFmzvbLc@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/02/13-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/12/12/03-48-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Jan Nieuwenhuizen" <janneke@gnu.org>
> > Strange. C strings without \n should be a single line when output,
> > regardless of the in-source
> > formatting. I'll have look at this. (Not that I don't want to fix
>

the
> > bug, but I want to know the root cause.
>
>
> That's really simple, see patch.  Somenone added comma's between the
> PS1 definition lines (that maybe indent broke up).


I suspect that that is actually by design.Look at revision 1.2 of
desktop.cc and it has the same ,'s causing separate lines. I don't
really have an opinion on whats right here, but FWIW my prompt always
appears on one line - are you running textmode or tcsh or seomthing
non-default?

> > script.cc and script.h. Put the functions there, they can get
>

OOPified
> > later.
>
>
> Ok, done.  Next iteration below.  script.cc still has some cygpath
> calls, but I didn't know how this should be done wrt the windows exec
> call.


Thats ok. We can create a process abstraction later. I'm not too worried
about refactoring incrementally. This part looks ready.

> [From previous msg:]
> > Also postinstall.h won't compile if it's the only include used in a
> > translation unit. (ie include the _absolutely_ required headers to
>

parse
> > postinstall.h
>
>
> Hmm, altough it's now called script.h, I don't see the problem; it
> compiles fine here when it's the only header.


Well blow me down. Thats cool.

> Greetings,
> Jan.
>
> 2001-12-09  Jan Nieuwenhuizen  <janneke@gnu.org>
>
> * install.cc: Typo fix.


Please put all changes related to a single file in one place.
ie
 * install.cc:  Typo fix.
   (do_install): Run script...

> * Makefile.in (CFLAGS): Remove -Werror to allow build of w32api
> headers


This will not be accepted. if w32api is broken, revert it to an older
date (cd ../w32api && cvs update -D"foo" is great) or, if you have the
time, fix w32api and submit a patch.

> (realclean): more clean.


*.d is cleaned by the clean target. Why are you adding it here as well?

> * desktop.cc (etc_profile): Remove commas between lines (and thus
> line breaks) from PS1.


See above, I'm not for or against this - I just want to understand _why_
it is breaking for you, and not globally.

> ```
> * script.cc (run_script): Replace deprecated remove and move
> calls.
>
> * postinstall.cc (run_script_in_etc_postinstall): New function.
> ```
>
> (do_postinstall): Split off new funtion init_run_script ().
> (init_run_script):
> (run):
> (run_script): Move to script.cc.
>
> ```
> * script.h:
> * script.cc: New file.
>
> * Forward port cygwin-20010707.jcn3.patch.
> ```
>
>
> ```
> * package_meta.cc (uninstall): Run pre- and postremove scripts.
>
> * install.cc (do_install): Run script initialisation.
> ```
>


All Cool.


Rob


