# Re: [PATCH]: Check modification time on /etc/passwd and /etc/group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-08-06T01:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010806105115.W23782@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010806105115.W23782@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/31/11-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/08/06/01-51-00)

On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 09:38:17PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 09:56:52PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 02:17:18PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 07:59:59PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 12:29:54PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > > So, is it worthwhile to make this change?  We might be adding some
> > > > > overhead for an infrequent case.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Hmm, that's a good question.  I would like to see that handled
> > > > correctly w/o having to stop and start my services again.  And it's
> > > > actually no infrequent case for sysadmins to add users.
> > >
> > >
> > > I wasn't talking about your change to automatically update /etc/passwd.
> > > I think that is valuable.
> > >
> > > I was more concerned about spending time to optimize /etc/passwd accesses
> > > not actually optimizing anything.
> >
> >
> > So you would prefer something silmilar to my first solution which
> > actually calls `stat()'?
>
>
> No.  Your last solution was fine.  Calculating the windows path once is,
> IMO, fine, too.
>
> I was referring to the goal of either putting the passwd info in the cygheap
> or avoiding the use of fopen/fgets/whatever.


I see. However, my patch isn't that useful in the current state since
it doesn't free the old passwd datastructures and buffers which must
still be added.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


