# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-09T18:14:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030809181426.GA11170@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030809181426.GA11170@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/22-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/09/18-14-00)

On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 12:29:39PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 12:12:11PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Thu, Aug 07, 2003 at 06:50:10PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > > Hi,
> > >
> > > This patch adds most of the capability of the script from
> > > <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-apps/2003-08/msg00106.html> to cygcheck.
> > > It is triggered by the "-c" flag to cygcheck.  "Integrity" is a rather
> > > strong word, actually, as all this checks for is the existence of files
> > > and directories, but this could be further built upon (for example, tar
> > > has a diff option that could be useful).  The patch is against cvs HEAD
> > > with my previous micropatch
> > > (<http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2003-q3/msg00058.html>) applied.
> > > Comments and suggestions welcome.
> >
> >
> > I'm getting some odd errors when I apply this patch:
> >
> > "4NT: Unknown command f:"
> >
> > (as you can see I use 4NT).
> >
> > I haven't had time to debug where these are coming from but I get one
> > for every file displayed.
>
>
> The enclosed patch fixes that.
>
> I'll check this in but it would be nice if (WBNI) this used a mingw gzip
> library rather than calling gzip directly.  That's a fair amount of
> work but I could resurrect the zlib library in winsup if necessary.
>
> I wonder why setup is using gzip rather than bzip2 for the package files...


On checking this patch a little further, I see that it gives a
misleading "OK" when the package file is missing.  Could you detect
that case?

cgf


