# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-09T19:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091527360.7386-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091527360.7386-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/09/19-32-00)

On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Charles Wilson wrote:

> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > I'll check this in but it would be nice if (WBNI) this used a mingw gzip
> > library rather than calling gzip directly.  That's a fair amount of
> > work but I could resurrect the zlib library in winsup if necessary.
>


Yes, I found the bzip2 library, but there was no zlib in the mingw
subtree, and I wasn't in the mood to experiment with the makefile magic to
make it work.

> > I wonder why setup is using gzip rather than bzip2 for the package files...
>
>
> the setup tree contains its own copies of the zlib and bzlib trees;
> thue, they are compiled under the same runtime that setup is.  If setup
> is a 'mingw' app, then so are the internal, statically linked libz and
> bz2lib.
>
> I imagine that the reason Igor used popen and zcat is simply that it was
> easier than directly interfacing to the library.  Perhaps that issue
> could be addressed in a later patch (along the lines of the compress_gz
> class, which also provides uncompression capabilities?)
>
> Chuck


That's exactly my plan.  If there were a mingw zlib example somewhere in
the code, I'd've used that, but I didn't want to venture into unknown
territory without a guide.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


