# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-09T19:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091539340.7386-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091539340.7386-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/09/19-52-00)

On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 12:29:39PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 12:12:11PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Thu, Aug 07, 2003 at 06:50:10PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > > > Hi,
> > > >
> > > > This patch adds most of the capability of the script from
> > > > <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-apps/2003-08/msg00106.html> to cygcheck.
> > > > It is triggered by the "-c" flag to cygcheck.  "Integrity" is a rather
> > > > strong word, actually, as all this checks for is the existence of files
> > > > and directories, but this could be further built upon (for example, tar
> > > > has a diff option that could be useful).  The patch is against cvs HEAD
> > > > with my previous micropatch
> > > > (<http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2003-q3/msg00058.html>) applied.
> > > > Comments and suggestions welcome.
> > >
> > >
> > > I'm getting some odd errors when I apply this patch:
> > >
> > > "4NT: Unknown command f:"
> > >
> > > (as you can see I use 4NT).
> > >
> > > I haven't had time to debug where these are coming from but I get one
> > > for every file displayed.
> >
> >
> > The enclosed patch fixes that.
> >
> > I'll check this in but it would be nice if (WBNI) this used a mingw gzip
> > library rather than calling gzip directly.  That's a fair amount of
> > work but I could resurrect the zlib library in winsup if necessary.
> >
> > I wonder why setup is using gzip rather than bzip2 for the package files...
>
>
> On checking this patch a little further, I see that it gives a
> misleading "OK" when the package file is missing.  Could you detect
> that case?
>
> cgf


Yes.  The attached patch (against the initial one applied) does just that.
	Igor
==============================================================================
ChangeLog:
2003-08-09  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>

	* dump_setup.cc (dump_setup): Check for the existence
	of the package list file.

-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck-verify-packages-adj.patch](cygcheck-verify-packages-adj.patch) (text)
