# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-09T19:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091553280.7386-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308091553280.7386-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/09/19-59-00)

On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> [snip]
> Btw, have you considered some kind of rpm -f functionality?  That would
> allow a user to do a:
>
> cygcheck -f /usr/bin/ls.exe
> fileutils-4.1-2
>
> Also some kind of functionality which would allow cygcheck to query
> the same files as the web search would be really cool.  Something like
> a:
>
> cygcheck --whatprovides /usr/bin/ls.exe
>
> would be really useful.


I'm not sure I see the difference between the two cases above.  Also, I
think this kind of query would be easier to implement if setup maintained
a more comprehensive database of files keyed by the filename.  I could
whip up something quick and dirty, but let's first decide on whether to
use the zlib library instead of calling gzip.exe -- that wasn't something
I intended to be permanent.

> Another interesting thing would be to do some ntsec/mkpasswd/mkgroup
> type sanity checks or even to fix up common ntsec problems.
>
> cgf


Yeah.  At least have it check for the group name of "mkpasswd" or
"mkgroup"...  That, however, would require a separate flag, IMO.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


