# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: signa: Redesign signal queue handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-03-07T17:35:23+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [1afdf7b2-df25-af17-76aa-d92fa914a65a@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1afdf7b2-df25-af17-76aa-d92fa914a65a@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-16-17.thread.md#:~:text=2025/03/07/16-35-23)

Christian Franke wrote:
> Takashi Yano wrote:
> > The previous implementation of the signal queue behaves as:
> > 1) Signals in the queue are processed in a disordered manner.
> > 2) If the same signal is already in the queue, new signal is discarded.
> >
> > Strictly speaking, these behaviours do not violate POSIX. However,
> > these could be a cause of unexpected behaviour in some software. In
> > Linux, some important signals such as SIGSTOP/SIGCONT do not seem to
> > behave like that.
> >
> > With this patch prevents all signals from that issues by redesigning
> > the signal queue, Only the exception is the case that the process is
> > in the PID_STOPPED state. In this case, SIGCONT/SIGKILL should be
> > processed prior to the other signals in the queue.
> >
> > Addresses:https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2025-March/257582.html
> > ...
>
>
> A quick test with many runs of 'lostsig' testcase with or without 
> 'taskset 0x1' no longer shows any problems. No SIGALRM were lost (not 
> required), [SIGTERM] is always printed after all [SIGALRM] (not 
> required), SIGCONT is never lost. The previous 'timersig' testcase 
> also still succeeds.
>
>


Unfortunately with another testcase (attached) without SIGSTOP/CONT but 
two different signals sent in a loop it does not work:

$ ./swapsigs
remaining 5
1891: fork()=1892
SIGALRM 0
remaining 4
SIGTERM 0
SIGALRM 1
SIGTERM 1
SIGALRM 2
[ALRM]
SIGTERM 2
SIGALRM 3
SIGTERM 3
SIGALRM 4
[TERM]
SIGTERM 4
[ALRM]
SIGALRM 5
SIGTERM 5
SIGALRM 6
SIGTERM 6
[TERM]
[ALRM]
SIGALRM 7
... both processes hang ...

Could not be reproduced with 'taskset 0x1' or with original 
3.6.0-0.423.ga3863bfeb73f.x86_64.

-- 
Regards,
Christian





---

**Attachments:**

- [swapsigs.c](swapsigs.c) (text)
