# Re: Add PAGE_SIZE, PAGE_SHIFT, PAGE_MASK to sys/param.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sources.redhat.com |
| **Date** | 2003-10-30T00:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3FA05514.3000000@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3FA05514.3000000@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/01-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/10/30/00-02-00)

cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:

[SNIP]
>
> I was mulling over this definitions again and somehow I'm inclined to
> refuse these definitons entirely. 


I see, well I suppose that's ok.

> First of all, you shouldn't use them in applications.  Applications
> should call getpagesize() or sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE) to get the page
> size. 
> Second, if you use them in a Cygwin patch, I would refuse *that* patch
> since in Cygwin you should also use getpagesize().  Or, even worse,
> in some circumstances you need the allocation granularity which you
> get by calling GetSystemInfo().


Well I  accept your criticism.  Some of this is new territory for me, so 
thanks for taking the time to explain why you think it is wrong.  I 
guess it is back to the drawing board for me.  Still, perhaps Brian's 
suggestion has some merit?

> So, the question is this:  If you should never use these values in an
> application and you should also not use them in Cygwin, why do we need
> them? 


I think I can work around depending on them using the ways you suggested 
and some other ways I've discoved while doing more research.  I'll 
rework the other stuff and resubmit a new patch.

Which brings up another matter, asm/socket.h.  Can someone point me to 
what source we should use when defining if ioctl macros in asm/socket.h. 
  Both bind and bsd seem to have very different definitions in terms of 
the read/write capabilities of the ioctls...

Cheers,
Nicholas


