# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Make gcc-specific code in <sys/cpuset.h> compiler-agnostic

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-07-09T00:58:37-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [c64c0dcb-5e74-deb8-4182-eafeecc0c730@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c64c0dcb-5e74-deb8-4182-eafeecc0c730@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/07-41-21.thread.md#:~:text=2023/07/09/07-58-37)

Hi all,

Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2023-07-08 15:53, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > Mark Geisert wrote:
> > I got tripped up by misspelling and not being able to link clang{,++} programs 
> > on my test system.  I checked the .o files with objdump: Clang and clang++ both 
> > support __builtin_popcountl, but they emit code for the Hackers Delight 
> > algorithm rather than using the single-instruction popcnt.  Sorry for the 
> > confustion [sic].
>
>
> That's what I meant - clang 8 "identifies as" gcc 4, and builtin and intrinsic 
> function support are almost the same (and fairly close to gcc 11) builtin and 
> intrinsic function support.
>
> And as you mentioned, any support for builtins is better than what we can whip up 
> off the top of our heads (unless you use HD/2!)
>
> For our purposes, the main differences between clang 8 and current are latest 
> language, library, and processor support, but it also supports useful tools like 
> the analyzer and formatter, which gcc does not provide.
>
> And it is convenient to be able to run another compiler side by side for 
> comparisons without copying files and remoting to another system.


I now understand what you were getting at.  We are in agreement.  Thanks to your 
persistence and everybody elses comments and to my belatedly getting a working 
clang/clang++ build environment, there is a much smaller v2 patch incoming.
Thanks and Regards All,

..mark



