# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: add wrappers for newer new/delete overloads

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-31T14:05:02-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [a5299499-c6ee-598a-dca4-f7a6bbedeb07@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/a5299499-c6ee-598a-dca4-f7a6bbedeb07@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../25/23-10-32.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/31/21-05-02)

On Thu, 31 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> > > > The sticking point would be libstdc++-6.dll once it is rebuilt with
> > > > the additional --wrap arguments in GCC, because it would define all
> > > > the operators and thus be incompatbile with older dll versions.
> > >
> >
>
>
> ....and the new libstdc++-6.dll, we're fine.  You wrote that the current
> libstdc++-6.dll already uses the newer new/delete calls, right?  Looks
> like this works with old DLLs except overloading the operators will have
> no result because these operators are unused in libstdc++-6.dll?
>
> I do hope I got that right...


I'm not sure it uses them, but if it does it would not work with
overloading the operators because they are not wrapped yet.

>
> > > Well, the SO version of the new libstdc++ would have to be bumped to 7,
> > > i. e., libstdc++-7.dll, that would solve half the problem.
> >
> >
> > I hope not.  The SO version of libstdc++ is 6 everywhere, and has been for
> > some time.  It's ABI hasn't changed.
>
>
> Yeah, but the DLL version number doesn't *have* to be the same as the ABI
> of the DLL.  If there's a good reason to bump, we can do that and IIRC
> (but fuzzy), it wouldn't be the first time.
>
> Oh, wait!  It just occured to me...
>
> We know that old DLLs don't write a value into __cygwin_user_data.api_major
> and __cygwin_user_data.api_minor.
>
> But what if the new Cygwin DLL does just that?
>
> Assuming dll_crt0_0 (definitely called prior to _cygwin_crt0_common)
> writes the current DLL CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MAJOR and
> CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR values into __cygwin_user_data.api_major/minor.
>
> Then _cygwin_crt0_common could check this before api_major/minor are
> overwritten with the app version, and then use this info when
> performing the CONDITIONALLY_OVERRIDEs.
>
> ```diff
> +  if (newu)
> +    new_dll_with_additional_operators = newu->api_major != 0
> +					|| newu->api_minor != 0;
> +
> ```
>


I'm considering 3 cases for _cygwin_crt0_common here, order in which they
happen
1) running from a linked dll's startup (ie, libstdc++-6.dll)
```
  newu would contain values initialized from cygwin dll's startup, would
  write its api versions to static struct per_process in
  cygwin_attach_dll, OK

```

2) running from exe's startup
```
  newu would still contain values initialized from cygwin dll's startup,
  would write it's api versions to newu due to assignment of u = newu.
  OK for now

```

3) running from dynamically loaded DLL's startup
```
  newu would contain values from exe's startup, not zero, so would always
  write the new pointers to cxx_malloc, memory corruption.
```



