# [PATCH] winsup/cygwin/libc/strptime.cc(__strptime) add strptime %s

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-08-24T09:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [92da937f-f770-f29c-651e-000f92cbf358@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/92da937f-f770-f29c-651e-000f92cbf358@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/24/04-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/08/24/09-33-00)

On 2017-07-23 22:07, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2017-07-23 20:09, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] wrote:
> > > But that's just scanning a decimal integer to time_t.
> >
> > It's not a question of whether I can or can't convert a string into an 
> > integer, rather it's a question about portability of code that uses %s for
> > both functions and expects it to work unchanged in the Cygwin environment.
> > Also, strptime() was designed to be a reversal to strftime() (from the
> > man-pages: the strptime() function is the converse function to strftime(3))
> > so both are supposed to "understand" the same basic set of formats. Because
> > of Cygwin's strptime() missing "%s", the following also does not work even
> > from command line:
> > $ date +"%s" | strptime "%s"
>
> Attached diff for proposed strptime %s and %F support.
> Let me know if you would prefer a different approach before I submit a git 
> format-patch.


Attached patch to support %s in Cygwin winsup libc strptime.cc __strptime().

This also enables support for %s in dateutils package strptime(1).

In case the issue comes up, if the user wants to support %s as in date(1) with a
preceding @ flag, they just have to include that verbatim before the format as
in "@%s".

Testing revealed a separate issue with %F format which I will follow up on in a
different thread.

Similar patch coming for newlib.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada


---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-winsup-cygwin-libc-strptime.cc-__strptime-add-strpti.patch](0001-winsup-cygwin-libc-strptime.cc-__strptime-add-strpti.patch) (text)
