# Re: winsup/cygwin/libc/strptime.cc(__strptime) strptime %F issue

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-08-24T17:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170824093255.GI7469@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170824093255.GI7469@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/24/04-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/08/24/17-11-00)

On Aug 23 13:25, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2017-08-23 12:51, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2017-07-23 22:07, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > On 2017-07-23 20:09, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] wrote:
> > > > > But that's just scanning a decimal integer to time_t.
> > > >
> > > > It's not a question of whether I can or can't convert a string into an 
> > > > integer, rather it's a question about portability of code that uses %s
> > > > for both functions and expects it to work unchanged in the Cygwin
> > > > environment.
> > > > Also, strptime() was designed to be a reversal to strftime() (from the 
> > > > man-pages: the strptime() function is the converse function to
> > > > strftime(3)) so both are supposed to "understand" the same basic set of
> > > > formats. Because of Cygwin's strptime() missing "%s", the following also
> > > > does not work even from command line:
> > > > $ date +"%s" | strptime "%s"
> > >
> >
> > Testing revealed a separate issue with %F format which I will follow up on in
> > a different thread.
>
> Actually same thread, different subject.
>
> Cygwin strptime(3) (also strptime(1)) fails with default width, without an
> explicit width, because of the test in the following code:
>
> case 'F':	/* The date as "%Y-%m-%d". */
> ```
> 	{
> 	  LEGAL_ALT(0);
> 	  ymd |= SET_YMD;
> 	  char *tmp = __strptime ((const char *) bp, "%Y-%m-%d",
> 				  tm, era_info, alt_digits,
> 				  locale);
> 	  if (tmp && (uint) (tmp - (char *) bp) > width)
> 	    return NULL;
> 	  bp = (const unsigned char *) tmp;
> 	  continue;
> 	}
>
> ```
>
> as default width is zero so test fails and returns NULL.
>
> Simple patch for this as with the other cases supporting width is to change the
> test to:
>
> 	  if (tmp && width && (uint) (tmp - (char *) bp) > width)
>
> but this does not properly support [+0] flags or width in the format as
> specified by glibc (latest POSIX punts on %F) for compatibility with strftime(),
> affecting only the %Y format, supplying %[+0]<w-6>F, to support signed and zero
> filled fixed and variable length year fields in %F format.


Ok, I admit I didn't understand this fully.  What is '<w-6>'?
Can you give a real world example?

> So do you want compatible support or just the quick fix?


Quick and then right?  Fixing this in two steps is just as well.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
