# Re: proc(5) and xml version

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-11-23T09:45:21+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201123084521.GL303847@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201123084521.GL303847@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/14-25-17.thread.md#:~:text=2020/11/23/08-45-21)

On Nov 20 09:42, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2020-11-16 16:21, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2020-11-16 06:41, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 16/11/2020 12:07, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Hi Brain,
> > > >
> > > > On Nov 13 07:25, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > > Hacked a Cygwin proc.5 man page FMOI over time, by combing through
> > > > > fhandler_proc..., converted to proc-5.xml using doclifter, back with xmlto
> > > > > as in the build, man width 80 output from both, and diff (all attached).
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Nice idea!
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > Yes, nice work.
> > >
> > > > > Unsure how this might best be fitted into the distro (cygwin, cygwin-doc,
> > > > > ...?) and/or whether there may be xml remediation possible to generate
> > > > > verbatim output left justified with zero margin, and character value
> > > > > displays, the major output issues in the diff? Content feedback is also
> > > > > welcome.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > This could replace the pathnames-proc and pathnames-proc-registry
> > > > sections in specialnames.xml.
> > > >
> > > > I think by using the refentry markup the man page would be generated
> > > > automagically, but Jon (CCed) is the definitiv source of wisdom here.
> > >
> > >
> > > Yes, all refentries in the UG should have manpages generated from
> > > them (only cygwin utilities currently).
> >
> >
> > I saw those but not specialnames, so should be able to incorporate the
> > comments to update the content, generate the xml and adapt to the
> > existing context as an update, then look at manpage generation.
> >
> > > The install rule in the Makefile would probably need extending to
> > > install *.5 to man5dir.
> > >
> > > These would then be included in the cygwin-doc package.
> >
> >
> > Great, that sounds workable.
>
>
> Attaching UG build doc outputs as results easier to see and review and
> change more obvious, rather than specialnames.xml and Makefile.in patches
> for now, as git does not appear to like non-patch attachments.


The actual patch is preferable, actually.


Thanks,
Corinna



