# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-12T21:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121112215023.GA1436@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121112215023.GA1436@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/12/21-50-00)

On Nov 12 15:02, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> I decided over the weekend to port over configury changes that I made to
> Cygwin's now-out-of-date GIT repository.
>
> These changes basically just cleaned up some of the configure scripts
> and made it easier to pinpoint where windows headers and libraries come
> from by adding a --with-windows-headers and --with-windows-libs options.
> However, some of the assumptions made for the git repository weren't
> really valid for the CVS repository so there was a fair amount of work
> involved.
>
> I thought that I'd do this so I could easily get up-and-running with the
> MinGW64 stuff but I ran into some problems building things with gentoo's
> MinGW64 implementation.  So, I switched to using the files from the
> Cygwin release.
>
> As I mentioned in cygwin-developers, getting the most recent version of
> mingw64 stuff working required making some changes to some Cygwin source
> files.  Most of the changes just involved #undef'ing constants defined
> in Windows headers.  Still, I was surprised that these hadn't already
> been handled since I thought I was behind the times by still using the
> Mingw32 stuff.
>
> Anyway, is a summary of the changes I've made to files is below.  I'll
> be doing appropriate ChangeLogs too, of course.  I've also attached the
> patch.
>
> This is a heads up in case this conflicted materially with any of the
> w64 development.


Looks good at first sight.  I see only one place which won't work for 64
bit, the ccwrap script.  It uses i686-pc-cygwin-gcc/g++ hardcoded, but
it should use something like ${target_cpu}-pc-cygwin-gcc/g++ to make it
platform independent.  With a matching change, I can give it a try on
64 bit tomorrow.

I'm a bit puzzled about the necessity of some of the changes to source
files.  Yaakov's Fedora 17 version of the headers is supposedly cut from
the mingw64 trunk on 2012-10-16, while JonY's official headers have an
upload date of 2012-10-18.  They should be practically identical.  Why
do I not see any problems to build CVS HEAD?!?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


