# RE: [PATCH] mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'Corinna Vinschen' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-11-02T06:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2828@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2828@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/02/06-32-00)

I can do that, but it'll probably be a while before I can get back to you on
it.  Things are a bit crazy at work.  If that's ok with you guys then I'll
do it.

Mark

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Corinna Vinschen [mailto:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com] 
> Sent: Tuesday, December 04, 2001 5:24 AM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH] mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user
>
>
> On Mon, Dec 03, 2001 at 11:22:54PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Dec 03, 2001 at 09:24:47PM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > > It just occurred to me that the patch I submitted for mkpasswd.c 
> > > causes one of its error messages to be a bit misleading.  
> >
>
> If you ask 
> > > mkpasswd for a user that doesn't exist it will say:
> > > "NetUserEnum() failed with error 2221.
> > > That user doesn't exist."
> > >
> > > While the error number is correct, and the explanation on 
> >
>
> the second 
> > > line is right, it's not actually NetUserEnum that's been called to 
> > > determine that. I don't know if you care about this, but maybe the 
> > > following patch could be thrown in to make that error a bit more 
> > > generic (and correct).
> >
> >
> > I agree that the user doesn't have to know about 
>
> NetUserEnum but the 
> > error message should be something like "mkpasswd: user 
>
> doesn't exist".
> >
> > Some of the messages are like this already.  Are you interested in 
> > genercizing the rest of the mkpasswd warnings?
> >
> > cgf
>
>
> I agree.  It would be nice(tm) to have an error message as the above
> "mkpasswd: user doesn't exist" or, if actually an error 
> occurs, to have a "mkpasswd: <Win32 error message>".  That's 
> not only useful for mkpasswd but for all tools calling Win32 
> error directly.
>
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails 
> regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                
> mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.
>



