# Re: experimental texmf packages

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Jan Nieuwenhuizen <janneke@gnu.org> |
| **Date** | 2001-11-02T13:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [01a801c18036$3d447350$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/01a801c18036$3d447350$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/02/13-54-00)

Follow to cygwin-patches please.

Thanks for freshening this up. There's still a little more to do, but it
looks good nonetheless.

Rob

----- Original Message -----
From: "Jan Nieuwenhuizen" <janneke@gnu.org>
> Jan Nieuwenhuizen <janneke@gnu.org> writes:
>
> > > BTW: can you freshed up your postremove patch? I'd like that to be
> > > included in setup.
> >
> >
> > Yes, will do.
>


Thank you. A few nits:

> cygwin-installer-20011208.ChangeLog
> 2001-12-08  Jan Nieuwenhuizen  <janneke@gnu.org>
>
> * Makefile.in (CFLAGS): Remove -Werror to allow build.


The Werror is in by design. If your patch won't build with it, I won't
accept you patch.

> (realclean): more clean.
>
> * configure.in (LIB_AC_PROG_CXX): Bugfix for CXXFLAGS override.


What's wrong with the current method?

> * desktop.cc (etc_profile): Remove line breaks and spaces from PS1.


The line is now > 80 chars, and indent will break it up again. Is there
some reason for this change?

> ```
> * Forward port cygwin-20010707.jcn3.patch.
>
> * postinstall.cc (do_postinstall): Split off:
> (init_run_script): New function.
> ```
>
> (run_script_in_etc_postinstall): New function.
>
> * package_meta.cc (try_run_script): New function.


This doesn't belong here. It's nothing to do with the package, but with
interfacing with the shell/scripts. Also (this one is minor/optional),
cygpath and _access are deprecated - foo = io_stream::open (concat
("cygfile://", dir, fname, 0), "rb") followed by run_script (foo) would
be the more OO approach here.

In the future I think we'll want a script or shell class to encapsulate
all of this.

> (uninstall): Run pre- and postremove scripts.
>
>
> * install.cc (do_install): Run script initialisation.


You're missing postinstall.h in your changelog.
Also postinstall.h won't compile if it's the only include used in a
translation unit. (ie include the _absolutely_ required headers to parse
postinstall.h

Thanks


