# Re: For the curious: Setup.exe char-> String patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael A Chase <mchase@ix.netcom.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-02-01T20:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [006701c1aba4$4996cb50$0d00a8c0@mchasecompaq](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/006701c1aba4$4996cb50$0d00a8c0@mchasecompaq) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-45-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/02/01/20-44-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>
To: "Michael A Chase" <mchase@ix.netcom.com>; <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Friday, February 01, 2002 18:45
Subject: RE: For the curious: Setup.exe char-> String patch

> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Michael A Chase [mailto:mchase@ix.netcom.com]
> > . . .
> > String++.h:
> >
> > ### Do you want String::concat() and String::vconcat to be
> > public?  The few
> > places I see them being used could be ... String ("first") +
> > next + next ...
> > You lose a little efficiency by not calling String::concat,
> > but you make up
> > some of it by not having to call String::cstr_oneuse().
>
>
> HMMM, worth thinking about. Remeber that vconcat can only be used with
> char *'s, and we don't want them :}. (think unicode native storage).
> There are other lower lever mechanisms to optimise String, but as we
> aren't CPU bound, I'm not concerned at this point. One such example you
> could look at is the SGI Rope class template. (I've not looked at that
> but it's similar to what another project I'm on has been creating from
> scratch, a team member recently said "hey, this is similar :}". As for
> concat vs +, concat canonicalises paths, which is what broke Chuck's //
> path references (because / indicated a posix path to the code AFAIK). I
> don't think thats an appropriate use for String:: though, so wrote +,
> and used that. Also, canonicalisation IMO should occur at the
> io_stream::open and related calls, not at every manipulation: file path
> fragments shouldn't get canonicalised.


This sounds like a case of violent agreement.  I'll apply the big patch in a
separate directory and see where concat and vconcat are being used in hopes
of replacing them.

> > log.cc/log.h:
> >
> > ### If I understand the change, a log line may be either
> > timestamped or
> > babble.  So a line can't be timestamped and only go to setup.log.full.
> > Likewise all lines in setup.log must be timestamped.  I think
> > we are losing
> > some useful capablities by changing from flags to level.
>
>
> mmm, yes, but we've also gained type safety. If you wish to submit a
> flags class ( I can enlarge on that if needed) to allow log
> (LOG_BABBLE|LOG_FULL & LOG_TIMESTAMP|LOG_LITERAL, String const &) that'd
> be fine by me. I like enforcing type safety where possible.


I'll have to do some thinking on that.  I've never tried to create a class.
Other changes would be more important at this point.  Would a LOG_PLAIN
(==LOG_TIMESTAMP) be acceptable to replace 0 in log() calls for now?  That
way it would be fairly easy to get back to the current log appearance if we
decide to.

> > mount.cc:
> >
> > ### It looks like it might be cleaner to make String cygpath
> > (String const
> > &) visible along with String cygpath (const char *, ...).  It
> > seems like
> > nearly every place I saw it used you are doing cygpath
> > (xxx.cstr_oneuse(),0).
>
>
> Yes, I want to... but doing it was going to be a right ol' pain
> initially, so I pu tit to the side.
>
> > ### The few places that involve concatenation could be handled by
> > String()+x+...  I'm willing to make a patch to catch any
> > leftovers so String
> > cygpath( const char *, ...) could be dropped.
>
>
> Please do.


I'll start on a patch to go over your big one.




