# RE: Open sockets non-overlapped?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn@artimi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-05-19T15:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [01cf01c67b5c$d78bd130$a501a8c0@CAM.ARTIMI.COM](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/01cf01c67b5c$d78bd130$a501a8c0@CAM.ARTIMI.COM) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/05/19/15-56-00)

On 19 May 2006 16:20, Lev Bishop wrote:

> Here's a trivial little patch for your consideration (while I wait for
> my copyright assignment to go through).
>
> It makes it so that cygwin sockets can be passed usefully to windows
> processes. Eg:
> $ cmd /c dir > /dev/tcp/localhost/5001
> However, it's not perfect -- if the windows process just exits, then
> the connection is reset, not shut down gracefully.  


  Well, if the windows process just exits, that is exactly what it has done.
A socket should be shut down gracefully if the app calls shutdown(), and if it
just calls close() the socket should be reset.  That's what "gracefully"
means.

> Playing with
> SO_LINGER doesn't seem to help here. Only way I can think of to make
> it work would be to have the cygwin stub that waits for windows
> processes to exit, to keep a handle on the socket, poll for when the
> windows process closes the socket (using NtQuerySystemInformation
> SystemHandleInformation?) and when it does, close down the socket
> gracefully.


  It probably shouldn't be made to "work" because that would be altering the
semantics of sockets. 

> Anyway, this adds new functionality and doesn't seem to break anything
> that worked before.


  What, you've tested /everything/ that worked before?  ;)

http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2005-03/msg01003.html
------------------------quote------------------------
"If you create a socket using the Winsock 2 WSASocket API and you need to
apply a timeout in receive or send operations on the socket, you must
specify the WSA_FLAG_OVERLAPPED flag in the WSASocket call."

From the MSDN website article
http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;181610.
------------------------quote------------------------

  Are we /sure/ cygwin doesn't *depend* on overlapped sockets?  In particular,
can a non-overlapped read be interrupted by a signal?  Have you tested this
vs. both blocking and non-blocking sockets?  This seems to me to be a highly
risky change; I'd like to know what testing you've done.

```
    cheers,
      DaveK
```

-- 
Can't think of a witty .sigline today....


