# Re: [PATCH] Package content search and listing functionality for cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-16T04:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308152358290.15497-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308152358290.15497-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](04-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/16/04-01-00)

On Fri, 15 Aug 2003, David Rothenberger wrote:

> Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > Dave,
> >
> > Thanks for catching this -- this was a genuine bug.  Thanks also for the
> > patch, but I have another one in the pipeline that'll conflict with yours
> > (<http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2003-q3/msg00105.html>).  How about
> > I just resubmit that patch with your changes included?
> >
> > Attached is a new patch, with an updated ChangeLog entry (well, two
> > entries).
>
>
> Thanks for fixing package_find(), too.  I should've checked that myself.
>
> I notice that package_list() prints a message in this case with the -v
> switch, but package_find() does not.  My personal pref. is for the
> message, but I'll leave it to you to decide.
>
> Dave


Dave,

Actually, there's a reason for that (and, in fact, it used to be the way
you described, and I changed it).  If package_list() looks at a package,
the contents of that package were requested on the command line, and thus,
if the list file is not found, an error message makes sense.  On the other
hand, package_find() looks at *all* the packages, so if the list for one
of them is missing (which could happen if the package is empty, for
example), package_find() will (should, IMO) simply ignore it.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


