# Re: [PATCH] Package content search and listing functionality for cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | David Rothenberger <daveroth@acm.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-16T04:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [16189.45520.758000.679252@gargle.gargle.HOWL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/16189.45520.758000.679252@gargle.gargle.HOWL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-29-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/16/04-23-00)

Igor Pechtchanski writes:
> On Fri, 15 Aug 2003, David Rothenberger wrote:
>
> > I notice that package_list() prints a message in this case with the -v
> > switch, but package_find() does not.  My personal pref. is for the
> > message, but I'll leave it to you to decide.
> >
> > Dave
>
>
> Dave,
>
> Actually, there's a reason for that (and, in fact, it used to be the way
> you described, and I changed it).  If package_list() looks at a package,
> the contents of that package were requested on the command line, and thus,
> if the list file is not found, an error message makes sense.  On the other
> hand, package_find() looks at *all* the packages, so if the list for one
> of them is missing (which could happen if the package is empty, for
> example), package_find() will (should, IMO) simply ignore it.
> 	Igor


Igor,

Yeah, that makes perfect sense, and I would have seen it was
intentional if I had looked closely at the patch.  Sorry for the
false alarm.

Here's another small patch for "cygcheck -c" that strips leading ./
and / from filenames in the package lists.

I have Joshua's packages for building cygwin-doc installed, and the
entries in those packages' lists start with "./", which breaks the
postinstall check, causing them to show up as bad.

I know these are non-standard packages, but it's such a small little
fix to support them and I would really like my "cygcheck -c" output
to be clean.  This gets it closer; it still complains about empty
packages like diff, but I don't see an easy way to solve that.

This patch includes all your previous changes.

Dave
======================================================================
2003-08-15  David Rothenberger  <daveroth@acm.org>

	* dump_setup.cc (package_find): Don't stop searching on missing
	file list.
	(package_list): Ditto.
	(check_package_files): Strip leading ./ and / from package
	contents. 

2003-08-15  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>

	* dump_setup.cc: (package_list): Make output terse unless
	verbose requested.  Fix formatting.
	(package_find): Ditto.



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck-list-verbose.patch](cygcheck-list-verbose.patch) (text)
