# Re: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | egor duda <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-09-27T07:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [008301c1475e$afb0c4e0$01000001@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/008301c1475e$afb0c4e0$01000001@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/27/07-12-00)

Ok this is a quick-and-it-couldbe-cleaner patch.

It's interim - this weekend I'll make time to roll the logic throughout
thread.cc. The patch doesn't introduce any new issues though, and it is
the correct IMO step to solving the issue(s) I was trying to address
with my last lets-break-cygwin patch.

I have _no_ idea why it worked at all after I built that .dll :}. The
fault for those wanting the grisly details was that I changed the
semantics of verifyableobject_isvalid without updating the tests against
the return code. Doh.

I'm having some trouble with cvs+ssh with this patch .. though I'm not
sure why. For a little while I though it might be chris's tuesday
sleep(1) change, because I was getting strange results from pspec> I'm
not sure though.

Anyway, I don't have time to complete a binary search now...

What I have established is that the faulty change (other than my
thread.cc snafu) is sometime between 1am tuesday 25th and now. In other
words, a dll built from cvs @tuesday 1am, with the most recent thread.cc
and thread.h and this patch seems to run ok. The cond_wait bug seems
particularly ticklish however, and that may be the cvs+ssh problem I was
seeing.

So, you can ignore this blurb :].

I'm not checking this patch in _yet_ as I'm still confirming that
everything is really ok. I'll have a little time in the office tomorrow
to follow up, it's bedtime now though.

Rob

----- Original Message -----
From: "egor duda" <deo@logos-m.ru>
To: "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>
Cc: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Thursday, September 27, 2001 11:00 PM
Subject: Re: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...


> Hi!
>
> Thursday, 27 September, 2001 Robert Collins

robert.collins@itdomain.com.au wrote:
>
> > > rscc>         * thread.cc (pthread_cond::BroadCast): Use address
> >
>

with
> RC> verifyable_object_isvalid().
> > > rscc>         (pthread_cond::Signal): Ditto.
> > >
> > > [...]
> > >
> > > Robert, i have problems with your last patch. at program startup
> > > read_etc_passwd() is called recursively and second call blocks at
> > > pthread_mutex_lock()
> >
>






---

**Attachments:**

- [fixmutex.patch](fixmutex.patch) (text)
