# Re: [PATCH] Ensure PSAPI_VERSION is 1 when building ldd

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-05-26T21:18:34+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YK6fCkQurJr8KEPq@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YK6fCkQurJr8KEPq@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/17-46-35.thread.md#:~:text=2021/05/26/19-18-34)

On May 26 13:04, Yaakov Selkowitz wrote:
> On Wed, 2021-05-26 at 17:51 +0100, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 26/05/2021 10:04, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On May 25 22:37, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 22/05/2021 16:08, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > On 20/05/2021 19:05, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > Hi Jon,
> > > > > >
> > > > > > On May 20 18:46, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > > The default PSAPI_VERSION is controlled by WIN32_WINNT, which we
> > > > > > > set to
> > > > > > > 0x0a00 when building ldd, which gets PSAPI_VERSION=2.
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > In the just released w32api 9.0.0, _WIN32_WINNT is now set to 0xa00 by
> > > > default, so this issue is probably going to surface in a few other
> > > > places as
> > > > well.
> > >
> > >
> > > I added _WIN32_WINNT and NTDDI_VERSION settings to make sure we notice
> > > any problems right away.
> >
> >
> > I'm not sure what the mechanism by which we're going to notice is?
>


Build problems?

> > Adding WIN32_WINNT=0x0a00 everywhere changes the meaning of '#include 
> > <psapi.h>' in a way that is incompatible with Vista.
>


Isn't that easily fixed by adding PSAPI_VERSION=1 prior to including
psapi.h?  We can add that to the Makefile as well...

> > So this has broken dumper, and possibly other utils, on Vista.
> >
> > I don't know if there are any other imports in other header which also 
> > have this annoying behaviour...
>


I think the psapi stuff is the only one changing their imports.

> Does Vista REALLY still need to be supported at this point?


It's probably not much of a problem but per the latest statistics
we still have... uhm... about 4 Vista users...


Corinna


