# RE: Deadly embrace between pthread_cond_wait and pthread_cond_signal

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Norman Vine <nhv@cape.com> |
| **To** | 'Robert Collins' <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>, 'Greg Smith' <gsmith@nc.rr.com>, Jason.Tishler@dothill.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-21T12:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [002401c0fa86$74d12880$a300a8c0@nhv](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/002401c0fa86$74d12880$a300a8c0@nhv) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-31-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/21/12-29-00)

THANK YOU GREG and ROB :-)))

I have not done exhaustive testing yet but..... 
It appears that with this patch 
Python threading WORKS !!

:-)))

Norman Vine

> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@sources.redhat.com
> [ mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@sources.redhat.com]On Behalf Of Robert
> Collins
> Sent: Thursday, June 21, 2001 10:33 AM
> To: Greg Smith
> Cc: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: Deadly embrace between pthread_cond_wait and
> pthread_cond_signal
>
>
> Correct a deadlock situation...
> Changelog:
> 2001-06-22  Robert Collins  rbtcollins@hotmail.com
>
>    * thread.cc (__pthread_cond_timedwait): Lock the waiting mutex
> before the condition protect mutex to avoid deadlocking.
>    (__pthread_cond_wait): Ditto.
>
>
> Greg, as far as speed goes, there is a major optimisation I want to
> make, which is to make all process private mutex's critical sections,
> instead of system wide mutex's. This should be a lot faster... when I
> get that done :].
>
> Rob
>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Greg Smith" <gsmith@nc.rr.com>
> To: <cygwin@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Thursday, June 21, 2001 3:11 PM
> Subject: Deadly embrace between pthread_cond_wait and
> pthread_cond_signal
>
>
> > I am using the cygwin-src snapshot from June 19.
> >
> > Suppose I have a thread, t1, that looks like:
> > void *t1() {
> > ```
> >    pthread_mutex_lock(&lock);
> >    pthread_cond_wait(&cond,&lock);
> >    pthread_mutex_unlock(&lock);
> > ```
> >
> > }
> > and a thread, t2, that looks like:
> > void *t2() {
> > ```
> >    pthread_mutex_lock(&lock);
> >    pthread_cond_signal(&cond);
> >    sleep(1);
> >    pthread_cond_signal(&cond);
> >    pthread_mutex_unlock(&lock);
> > ```
> >
> > }
> >
> > When thread t1 wakes up as a result of the first pthread_cond_signal
> > issued by thread t2, __pthread_cond_wait in thread.cc 
>
> obtains internal
> > mutex `cond_access' then hangs trying to acquire external 
>
> mutex `lock'
> > which is owned by thread t2.
> >
> > When thread t2 issues the second pthread_cond_signal, still holding
> > external mutex `lock', pthread_cond::Signal in thread.cc tries to
> > get internal mutex `cond_access' and hangs because it is owned by t1.
> >
> > So, t1 has `cond_access' and is waiting on `lock'
> > and t2 has `lock' and is waiting on `cond_access'.
> >
> > As a workaround, I moved the pthread_mutex_lock for cond_access in
> > __pthread_cond_wait from before the (*cond)->mutex->Lock() to after
> > it, and my application has gotten a whole lot further than 
>
> ever before
> > using native cygwin pthreads, although it does seem to be running as
> > slow as molasses compared to linux.  But maybe that's cause of my
> > debug stuff I had to add.
> >
> > Thanks,
> >
> > Greg
> >
> > --
> > Want to unsubscribe from this list?
> > Check out: http://cygwin.com/ml/#unsubscribe-simple
> >
> >
>
>



