# Re: Protect handle issue-ettes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-14T09:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020714161750.GA26964@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020714161750.GA26964@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/14/09-17-00)

On Sun, Jul 14, 2002 at 01:07:29PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> I've attached one patch to the protect handle mechanism: a
> forgotten "hl = hl->next" after find_handle() in setclexec().
> This cured a seg. fault I was getting in the cygwin_daemon branch
> when running make.


Thanks.  Applied.

> I'm still not clear why the cygserver code disturbs this mechanism
> so much: I wasn't getting the seg. fault on the HEAD version.
> I've now added calls to ProtectHandle into the cygserver code, so
> this doesn't seem to be anything to do with their (previous)
> omission.
>
> Other than that, I'm still getting quite a bit of noise, all of
> which (that I've bothered to trace through) is due to handles that
> are non-inheritable (i.e. held in a NO_COPY variable and created
> with, e.g., sec_none_nih).  AFAICT, these need to be removed from
> the protected handle list on fork, not just on fork-exec.  I've
> attached a sample of the "noise" to the end of this message.
>
> Such handles include:
>
> exceptions.cc:
>    title_mutex
>
> sigproc.cc:
> ```
>    sigcatch_nonmain
>    sigcatch_main
>    sigcomplete_nonmain
>    sigcomplete_main
> ```
>


None of those are marked inheritable.

> I don't see any mechanism to do this in the code at present and
> I've not the time to go into this any further just now, but I hope
> that helps.


Huh?  The code in dll_crt0_1 is supposed to be called on a fork or an
exec.  That's why I renamed it to debug_fixup_after_fork_exec.
As far as I can tell it *is* called on a fork.  strace confirms
that.

cgf


