# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: pty: Restore nat handles in all PTY-slave instances in GDB

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-04-06T21:19:07+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20260406211907.c70b72c0d2f249d382ccfc77@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20260406211907.c70b72c0d2f249d382ccfc77@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/09/07-06-31.thread.md#:~:text=2026/04/06/12-19-07)

Hi Johannes,

Thanks for the review.

On Mon, 6 Apr 2026 10:14:10 +0200 (CEST)
Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> Hi Takashi,
>
> On Mon, 6 Apr 2026, Takashi Yano wrote:
>
> > If non-cygwin app is started in GDB and terminating it normally,
> > re-running the non-cygwin app might fail in setup_pseudoconsole().
> >
> > The error is something like:
> >
> > $ gdb ./winsleep
> > GNU gdb (GDB) (Cygwin 15.2-1) 15.2
> > Copyright (C) 2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
> > License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
> > This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
> > There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
> > Type "show copying" and "show warranty" for details.
> > This GDB was configured as "x86_64-pc-cygwin".
> > Type "show configuration" for configuration details.
> > For bug reporting instructions, please see:
> > <https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/bugs/>.
> > Find the GDB manual and other documentation resources online at:
> >     <http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/documentation/>.
> >
> > For help, type "help".
> > Type "apropos word" to search for commands related to "word"...
> > Reading symbols from ./winsleep...
> > (gdb) run
> > Starting program: /home/yano/winsleep
> > [New Thread 49324.0x14178]
> > [Thread 49324.0x14178 exited with code 0]
> > [Inferior 1 (process 49324) exited normally]
> > (gdb) run
> > Starting program: /home/yano/winsleep
> > ```
> >       0 [] gdb 294 fhandler_pty_slave::setup_pseudoconsole: CreatePseudoConsole() failed. 00000057 80070057
> >                            [New Thread 86480.0xfd4]
> > ```
> >
> > [Thread 86480.0xfd4 exited with code 0]
> > [Inferior 1 (process 86480) exited normally]
> > (gdb)
> >
> > The essential problem is lack of restoring nat handles for *ALL* the
> > PTY-slave instances after closing pseudo console in GDB.
> >
> > Restoring handles from pseudo console handles to simple pipe handles
> > is not necessary in normal non-cygwin apps because pseudo console is
> > setup in the stub process for the non-cygwin app and the stub process
> > exits after the app is terminated.
> >
> > However, for GDB, pseudo console is setup in GDB process in hooked
> > CreateProcess() because GDB does not use exec() to run an inferior
> > (debuggee). Therefore, after the inferior exits, nat handle must be
> > restored to simple pipe handles.
> >
> > The current code restores only handles in the PTY-slave instance
> > that has called fhandler_pty_slave::reset_switch_to_nat_pipe(). If
> > this instance is different from the instance that will setup pseudo
> > console, the nat handles are not restored correctly, then call to
> > CreatePseudoConsole() causes error.
>
>
> The fix is correct and the commit message is excellent: detailed repro,
> clear root cause analysis, and a good explanation of why GDB is the
> special case (it sets up the pseudo console in its own process rather
> than in a stub that exits). Thank you!
>
> Reviewed-by: Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de>
>
> One tiny typo in the commit message:
>
> > To solves this issue, restore nat handles in all the PTY-slave
> > instances to simple pipe handles when the inferior exits with this
> > patch.
>
>
> "To solves" should be "To solve". Since you apply your own patches, you
> can fix that before pushing.
>
> > In addition, if ctty is PTY-slave, fixup handles in it as well.
>
>
> One optional suggestion for a possible follow-up: after this patch, the
> handle-replacement pattern (iterate the fd table + ctty, compare old
> handles, set new handles, close old handles) is now duplicated nearly
> verbatim between `reset_switch_to_nat_pipe()` and `setup_pseudoconsole()`.
> The only difference between the two blocks is the two new HANDLE values
> passed in.
>
> This would be a natural candidate for a small helper method, something
> like this:
>
> ```
> 	void
> 	fhandler_pty_slave::replace_nat_handles (HANDLE new_input, HANDLE new_output)
> 	{
> 	  HANDLE orig_input = get_handle_nat ();
> 	  HANDLE orig_output = get_output_handle_nat ();
> 	  cygheap_fdenum cfd (false);
> 	  while (cfd.next () >= 0)
> 	    if (cfd->get_device () == get_device ())
> 	      {
> 		fhandler_pty_slave *ptys = (fhandler_pty_slave *) (fhandler_base *) cfd;
> 		if (ptys->get_handle_nat () == orig_input)
> 		  ptys->set_handle_nat (new_input);
> 		if (ptys->get_output_handle_nat () == orig_output)
> 		  ptys->set_output_handle_nat (new_output);
> 	      }
> 	  if (cygheap->ctty->get_device () == get_device ())
> 	    {
> 	      fhandler_pty_slave *ptys = (fhandler_pty_slave *) cygheap->ctty;
> 	      if (ptys->get_handle_nat () == orig_input)
> 		ptys->set_handle_nat (new_input);
> 	      if (ptys->get_output_handle_nat () == orig_output)
> 		ptys->set_output_handle_nat (new_output);
> 	    }
> 	  CloseHandle (orig_input);
> 	  CloseHandle (orig_output);
> 	}
>
> ```
>
> Both call sites would then collapse to a single line each. This is not a
> request to respin; the patch is fine as-is. Just something worth
> considering as a follow-up since the duplication is quite substantial
> (~20 lines).


Great idea! I've adopted your suggestion and pushed.

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


