# Re: [Patch] Loading cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-06-06T19:40:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.61.0506061536381.15703@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.61.0506061536381.15703@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/06/06/19-40-00)

On Mon, 6 Jun 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> I fat fingered my response to Max, ended up sending a personal message
> and never noticed until I received a personal reply from him.  I, of
> course, asked him not to send me personal email which was pretty
> confusing since I'd previously just sent him a personal reply.
>
> Translation:  I am a maroon.
>
> Anywhay this is what should have gone out days ago.
>
> On Fri, Jun 03, 2005 at 03:58:09PM -0700, Max Kaehn wrote:
> > This patch contains the changes to make it possible to dynamically load
> > cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC applications.  The changes to dcrt0.cc are
> > minimal and only affect cygwin_dll_init().  I've also added a MinGW test
> > program to testsuite and a FAQ so people will be able to locate the
> > test program easily.
> >
> > I wrote how-cygtls-works.txt because it took me a while to figure out how it
> > was storing the information, and I hope I can save someone else the effort in
> > the future.  (I had no idea Windows was still using segment registers!)
> > I hope I got the copyright message right for it.
>
>
> Wow! That's great! Thanks for doing this.  It is much appreciated.  This
> is something that I had been meaning to do and you did a better job than
> I would have.  This truly deserves a gold star.  I know that understanding
> the cygtls stuff could not have been easy.
>
> Can I get a gold star over here for this truly heroic effort?


One(?) gold star coming up.  What's it for, though -- the changes that
enable dynamically loading cygwin1.dll, or how-cygtls-works.txt?

> I have checked in everything but the test suite stuff.  I would like to
> see some changes there:
>
> 1) Use '.cc' rather than '.cpp' for the extension to be consistent with
> the rest of winsup.
>
> 2) Use the same formatting that is used throughout cygwin for brace
> placement, etc.
>
> 3) Submit the new files as diffs against /dev/null so that I can apply
> like a normal patch.
>
> Did you consider other ways of dealing with the need for space at the
> bottom of the stack?
>
> Having an interface which requires a "main" function name so that you'd
> do something like:
>
> int
> main (int argc, char **argv)
> {
> ```
>   initialize_cygwin (rest_of_main, argc, argv);
>   /* never returns */
> ```
>
> }
>
> int
> rest_of_main (argc, argv)
> {
> ```
>   /* do main stuff */
>   .
>   .
>   .
>   exit or return here
> ```
>
> }
>
> And in cygwin initialize_cygwin would look something like:
>
> void
> initialize_cygwin (int (*) main, int argc, char **argv)
> {
> ```
>   struct _cygtls dummy_tls;
>   initialize_main_tls (&dummy_tls);
>   cygwin_dll_init ();
>   exit (main (argc, argv));
> ```
>


Did you mean "exit (rest_of_main (argc, argv));" here?

> }
>
> And declaring initialize_cygwin as a "__attribute__ ((noreturn))" in an
> appropriate header file.
>
> This has the downside of maybe causing more code disruption, though...
>
> cgf


	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"The Sun will pass between the Earth and the Moon tonight for a total
Lunar eclipse..." -- WCBS Radio Newsbrief, Oct 27 2004, 12:01 pm EDT


