# Re: [Patch] Testing loads of cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC, take 3

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-06-06T21:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050606213339.GC16960@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050606213339.GC16960@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/06/06/21-33-00)

On Mon, Jun 06, 2005 at 02:01:44PM -0700, Max Kaehn wrote:
> This patch contains a revised version of the "cygload" test utility,
> this time with even better adherence to cygwin naming and indentation.
> Igor, thanks for pointing me at "indent"-- it also pointed out
> that I was forgetting to put spaces in front of the parameter
> lists for my function calls.
>
> I'm using diff -upN against an empty directory "winsup/testsuite/cyglode";
> I hope that's OK.
> ---
> ChangeLog for winsup/testsuite:
>
> 2005-05-27  Max Kaehn <slothman@electric-cloud.com>
>
> 	* Makefile.in:  now tests cygload.
> 	* cygload:  New directory.
> 	* cygload/README:  New file.
> 	* cygload/Makefile:  Ditto.
> 	* cygload/cygload.h:  Ditto.
> 	* cygload/cygload.cc:  Ditto.
> 	* cygload/cygload.exp:  Ditto.


There were still some braces at the end of the line in cygload.h so I
changed those.  I also changed the ChangeLog entry "now tests cygload"
to "Test cygload".  See http://cygwin.com/contrib.html for some common
mistakes in ChangeLog entries.

So, I checked in the above and, after changing cygload.exp so that it
compiles cygload.cc rather than cygload.cpp, I found a more serious
error.  I've attached the cygload.log file.  It doesn't look pretty,
unfortunately.  You might notice the same thing if you configure your
Cygwin DLL with --enable-debugging, like I do.

Another problem is that since you have separated out the Makefile into
two separate invocations of $(RUNTEST) the error return from the Makefile
will not be set correctly.  To preserve previous operation, the makefile
should do all of the tests and then return with a status of zero if things
completed correctly or nonzero otherwise.

cgf


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygload.log](cygload.log) (text)
