# Re: [Patch] Testing loads of cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC, take 3

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Max Kaehn <slothman@electric-cloud.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-06-06T22:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1118098448.5031.157.camel@fulgurite](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1118098448.5031.157.camel@fulgurite) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/06/06/22-54-00)

On Mon, 2005-06-06 at 14:33, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> There were still some braces at the end of the line in cygload.h so I
> changed those.  I also changed the ChangeLog entry "now tests cygload"
> to "Test cygload".  See http://cygwin.com/contrib.html for some common
> mistakes in ChangeLog entries.


Got it.  (Still wrapping my brain around using the present tense. :-) )

> So, I checked in the above and, after changing cygload.exp so that it
> compiles cygload.cc rather than cygload.cpp, I found a more serious
> error.  I've attached the cygload.log file.  It doesn't look pretty,
> unfortunately.  You might notice the same thing if you configure your
> Cygwin DLL with --enable-debugging, like I do.


Aha!  I'll rebuild and investigate.  Thanks.

> Another problem is that since you have separated out the Makefile into
> two separate invocations of $(RUNTEST) the error return from the Makefile
> will not be set correctly.  To preserve previous operation, the makefile
> should do all of the tests and then return with a status of zero if things
> completed correctly or nonzero otherwise.


My goof.  Like this?

Index: winsup/testsuite/Makefile.in
===================================================================
RCS file: /cvs/src/src/winsup/testsuite/Makefile.in,v
retrieving revision 1.20
diff -u -p -r1.20 Makefile.in
```diff
--- winsup/testsuite/Makefile.in        6 Jun 2005 21:13:31 -0000      
```

1.20
```diff
+++ winsup/testsuite/Makefile.in        6 Jun 2005 22:49:40 -0000
@@ -186,7 +186,7 @@ check: $(TESTSUP_LIB_NAME) $(RUNTIME) cy
           TCL_LIBRARY=`cd .. ; cd ${srcdir}/../../tcl/library ; pwd` ;
```

\
```
            export TCL_LIBRARY ; fi ; \
        PATH=$(bupdir)/cygwin:$${PATH} ;\
```

-       $(RUNTEST) --tool winsup $(RUNTESTFLAGS) ;\
+       $(RUNTEST) --tool winsup $(RUNTESTFLAGS) ||\
        $(RUNTEST) --tool cygload $(RUNTESTFLAGS)



