# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck: follow symbolic links

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-02-23T11:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060223112956.GF4294@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060223112956.GF4294@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/18-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/02/23/11-30-00)

On Feb 22 13:55, Igor Peshansky wrote:
> On Fri, 17 Feb 2006, Igor Peshansky wrote:
> > On Fri, 17 Feb 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Feb 16 12:26, Igor Peshansky wrote:
> > > > On Thu, 16 Feb 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > - Most of your patch should go into path.cc so it can be reused,
> > > > >   for instance in strace.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Agreed -- that's why I put that TODO in there. :-)  Should I move it
> > > > in the next iteration of the patch?
> > >
> > >
> > > Please move it now.  I don't think it's non-trivial enough to justify
> > > multiple iterations.
> >
> >
> > Whoops.  Misspoke.  I meant "incarnation".  Never mind, I'll just do it.
> > :-)  Expect a new patch today.
>
>
> I guess "today" is a stretchable concept. :-)  In any case, here's a new
> patch.  Moving things into path.cc turned out to be indeed non-trivial,
> since the new functionality was using static functions in cygcheck.cc
> which now needed to be moved out into a separate file.  I don't expect
> this to be applied right away (hence no ChangeLog), but is this along the
> lines of what you were expecting?


Yes, this looks generally ok to me.  I didn't *test* your patch, but
from the look of it, it seems fine, with one exception:

I don't see a reason to introduce a new fileutil.cc file.  Please move
the functions into path.cc, add the extern declarations to path.h (so
you can drop them from cygcheck.cc), and revert the Makefile changes.
Then, together with a neat ChangeLog entry, we're pratically done :-)

Thanks for doing this, btw.  I really appreciate it.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


