# Re: proc(5) and xml version

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-11-20T09:42:34-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [451c49af-7a9e-bc70-459a-b67170d5ed50@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/451c49af-7a9e-bc70-459a-b67170d5ed50@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/14-25-17.thread.md#:~:text=2020/11/20/16-42-34)

On 2020-11-16 16:21, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2020-11-16 06:41, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 16/11/2020 12:07, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Brain,
> > >
> > > On Nov 13 07:25, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > Hacked a Cygwin proc.5 man page FMOI over time, by combing through
> > > > fhandler_proc..., converted to proc-5.xml using doclifter, back with xmlto
> > > > as in the build, man width 80 output from both, and diff (all attached).
> > >
> > >
> > > Nice idea!
> > >
> >
> >
> > Yes, nice work.
> >
> > > > Unsure how this might best be fitted into the distro (cygwin, cygwin-doc,
> > > > ...?) and/or whether there may be xml remediation possible to generate
> > > > verbatim output left justified with zero margin, and character value
> > > > displays, the major output issues in the diff? Content feedback is also
> > > > welcome.
> > >
> > >
> > > This could replace the pathnames-proc and pathnames-proc-registry
> > > sections in specialnames.xml.
> > >
> > > I think by using the refentry markup the man page would be generated
> > > automagically, but Jon (CCed) is the definitiv source of wisdom here.
> >
> >
> > Yes, all refentries in the UG should have manpages generated from them (only 
> > cygwin utilities currently).
>
>
> I saw those but not specialnames, so should be able to incorporate the comments 
> to update the content, generate the xml and adapt to the existing context as an 
> update, then look at manpage generation.
>
> > The install rule in the Makefile would probably need extending to install *.5 
> > to man5dir.
> >
> > These would then be included in the cygwin-doc package.
>
>
> Great, that sounds workable.


Attaching UG build doc outputs as results easier to see and review and change 
more obvious, rather than specialnames.xml and Makefile.in patches for now, as 
git does not appear to like non-patch attachments.

One of the issues with the xml input is that formatting wide screen displays as 
if at .in 0 appears to be impossible, or at least not in evidence in any of the 
other inputs or outputs, which don't include such heavily indented lists of 
lists, and ending and restarting heavy indenting context appears ugly.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-ug-net.info](cygwin-ug-net.info) (application)
- [cygwin-ug-net.info-1](cygwin-ug-net.info-1) (application)
- [cygwin-ug-net.info-2](cygwin-ug-net.info-2) (application)
- [proc.5](proc.5) (text)
