# Re: [PATCH 01/11] syscalls.cc: unlink_nt: Try FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE first

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-01-18T15:39:34+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20210118143934.GG59030@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20210118143934.GG59030@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/13-45-23.thread.md#:~:text=2021/01/18/14-39-34)

On Jan 18 15:30, Ben wrote:
>
>
> On 18-01-2021 13:22, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On Jan 18 13:11, Ben wrote:
> > >
> > >
> > > On 18-01-2021 11:45, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > Rather than calling NtSetInformationFile here again, we should rather
> > > > just skip the transaction stuff on 1809 and later.  I'd suggest adding
> > > > another wincap flag like, say, "has_posix_ro_override", being true
> > > > for 1809 and later.  Then we can skip the transaction handling if
> > > > wincap.has_posix_ro_override () and just add the
> > > > FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE flag to fdie.Flags, if
> > > > it's available.
> > >
> > >
> > > Hmmm, I'm not sure if I follow you: This extra NtSetInformationFile is not
> > > related to the transaction stuff?
> >
> >
> > Right, sorry.  I meant the
> >
> >   if (pc.file_attributes () & FILE_ATTRIBUTE_READONLY)
> >
> > bracketed code in fact.  What I meant is to keep it at
> >
> > ```
> >   open
> >   if (ro)
> >     setattributes
> >   setinformation
> >   ...
> >
> > ```
> >
> > and only add the required additional flag.
>
>
> Ah, yes I understand. The extra NtSetInformation was there for
> the fallback without FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE
>
> I have seen bordercases, but I have not seen NtSetInformation fail
> FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE and succeed without.
> Even if it would, Your suggestion does save a bunch of code...
>
> >
> >
> > > Also I have seen NtSetInformationFile fail with STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER.
> >
> >
> > That should only occur on pre-1809 then, and adding the extra wincap
> > would fix that.
>
>
> Do note: This can also happen post-1809 with a driver that hasn't implemented it yet.


I'm sure, but that code path is called on non-remote ntfs only anyway.


Corinna


