# Re: [PATCH 01/11] syscalls.cc: unlink_nt: Try FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE first

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ben <ben@wijen.net> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2021-01-18T15:30:24+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [51b3e03d-9a97-d83f-1858-751a9a51394e@wijen.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/51b3e03d-9a97-d83f-1858-751a9a51394e@wijen.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/13-45-23.thread.md#:~:text=2021/01/18/14-30-24)



On 18-01-2021 13:22, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Jan 18 13:11, Ben wrote:
> >
> >
> > On 18-01-2021 11:45, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > Rather than calling NtSetInformationFile here again, we should rather
> > > just skip the transaction stuff on 1809 and later.  I'd suggest adding
> > > another wincap flag like, say, "has_posix_ro_override", being true
> > > for 1809 and later.  Then we can skip the transaction handling if
> > > wincap.has_posix_ro_override () and just add the
> > > FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE flag to fdie.Flags, if
> > > it's available.
> >
> >
> > Hmmm, I'm not sure if I follow you: This extra NtSetInformationFile is not
> > related to the transaction stuff?
>
>
> Right, sorry.  I meant the
>
>   if (pc.file_attributes () & FILE_ATTRIBUTE_READONLY)
>
> bracketed code in fact.  What I meant is to keep it at
>
> ```
>   open
>   if (ro)
>     setattributes
>   setinformation
>   ...
>
> ```
>
> and only add the required additional flag.


Ah, yes I understand. The extra NtSetInformation was there for
the fallback without FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE

I have seen bordercases, but I have not seen NtSetInformation fail
FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE and succeed without.
Even if it would, Your suggestion does save a bunch of code...

>
>
> > Also I have seen NtSetInformationFile fail with STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER.
>
>
> That should only occur on pre-1809 then, and adding the extra wincap
> would fix that.


Do note: This can also happen post-1809 with a driver that hasn't implemented it yet.

>
> > So a retry without FILE_DISPOSITION_IGNORE_READONLY_ATTRIBUTE is valid here.
>
>
> That would be a border case which might then occur with the
> FILE_DISPOSITION_POSIX_SEMANTICS flag, too.  The current code falls
> through anyway, that should be sufficient, right?


Yes, the existing fallback, should be sufficient.

>
> >
> > I have thought about adding wincap.has_posix_unlink_semantics_with_ignore_readonly
> > but it is equal to wincap.has_posix_rename_semantics so I didn't bother adding it.
>
>
> It doesn't hurt to add another flag with the same values.  It's better
> readable in context, which easily makes up for the extra bit :)


Ok, will do.

>
>
> Corinna
>



