# Re: /dev/clipboard pasting with small read() buffer

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-08-17T09:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20120817092239.GA11017@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20120817092239.GA11017@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/20-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/08/17/09-23-00)

On Aug 17 10:44, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> On 16.08.2012 18:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 16 09:24, Eric Blake wrote:
> > > On 08/16/2012 08:20 AM, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > >
> > > > > > MB_CUR_MAX does not work because its value is 1 at this point
> > > > >
> > > > > So what about MB_LEN_MAX then?  There's no problem using a multiplier,
> > > > > but a symbolic constant is always better than a numerical constant.
> > > >
> > > > I've now used _MB_LEN_MAX from newlib.h, rather than MB_LEN_MAX from
> > > > limits.h (note the "_" distinction :) ),
> > > > because the latter, by its preceding comment, reserves the option to be
> > > > changed into a dynamic function in the future, which could then possibly
> > > > have the same problems as MB_CUR_MAX.
> > >
> > > POSIX requires MB_LEN_MAX to be a constant, only MB_CUR_MAX can be
> > > dynamic.  We cannot change MB_LEN_MAX to be dynamic in the future.
> >
> > ...also, Cygwin's include/limits.h doesn't mention to convert to
> > a function.
>
> Not sure how to interpret exactly what it mentions.


This is from the time I was working on the extended locale support
in Cygwin 1.7.  I have not the faintest idea anymore what I was trying
to say with this comment.

>  Anyway, my
> updated patch (using MB_LEN_MAX) proposes a change here as well.


Thanks.  I dropped the hint that 4 is enough.  I'm not so sure about
that.  Linux, for instance, defines MB_LEN_MAX as 16.

Other than that, patch applied.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


