# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-31T20:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030831161147.008294d0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030831161147.008294d0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/31/20-13-00)

At 02:39 PM 8/31/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> On Sun, Aug 31, 2003 at 11:23:52AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > thanks for your quick response to the ftp crash.
>
>
> It would have been much quicker if I'd clued into the fact that an
> address like a0dc018 != a0dc01c.  It took my 127 attempts at running ftp
> to finally see what was going on.
>
> I can't believe that this hasn't caused problems for other programs.
> It's a pretty serious problem.  Every time I think I've got this fixed
> another corner case occurs to me which has to be dealt with.


I had the feeling I had seen mails on gethostbyname before.
So I suspected it wasn't trivial and I spent the evening on 
other kind of activities !

> > writev (const int fd, const struct iovec *const iov, const int iovcnt)
> > {
> > ```
> >  sig_dispatch_pending ();
> >  sigframe thisframe (mainthread);
> >
> > ```
> >
> > The call to sig_dispatch_pending is meant for the case where
> > there is a pending signal. Assume there indeed is one.
> > The call to sig_dispatch_pending will setup an interrupt in sigsave. 
> > The return address on the stack will be the first interruptible return 
> > address above sig_dispatch_pending, i.e. the return address of writev.
> > The handler will not be entered until writev returns.
>
>
> Ok.  I see what you mean but the old code was not actually right either.
> I wrote a test case (enclosed) which sent a signal to a process running
> a modified version of cygwin1.dll after the call to sigframe
> ("guaranteed" with the judicious use of Sleep) in sig_dispatch_pending.
> The 'ouch' wasn't triggered by the either the old or new cygwin code.
> So, I've checked in new code in sig_dispatch_pending.


Why would the ouch be triggered? The parent is long dead when
the child kills its ppid, which by that time is 1.

```
                                nanosleep: 0 = nanosleep (200, 0)
  428 1593118 [main] a 75308827 kill: kill (1, 1)   <=== dad is gone
  413 1593531 [main] a 75308827 sig_dispatch_pending: pending_signals 0
 1088 1594619 [main] a 75308827 sig_dispatch_pending: no need to wake
```

anything up
  576 1595195 [main] a 75308827 __set_errno: int kill_worker(int, int):181
val 3

Pierre


