# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-31T20:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030831202150.GA7225@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030831202150.GA7225@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/31/20-21-00)

On Sun, Aug 31, 2003 at 04:11:47PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 02:39 PM 8/31/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> > On Sun, Aug 31, 2003 at 11:23:52AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > thanks for your quick response to the ftp crash.
> >
> >
> > It would have been much quicker if I'd clued into the fact that an
> > address like a0dc018 != a0dc01c.  It took my 127 attempts at running ftp
> > to finally see what was going on.
> >
> > I can't believe that this hasn't caused problems for other programs.
> > It's a pretty serious problem.  Every time I think I've got this fixed
> > another corner case occurs to me which has to be dealt with.
>
>
> I had the feeling I had seen mails on gethostbyname before.
> So I suspected it wasn't trivial and I spent the evening on 
> other kind of activities !
>
> > > writev (const int fd, const struct iovec *const iov, const int iovcnt)
> > > {
> > > ```
> > >  sig_dispatch_pending ();
> > >  sigframe thisframe (mainthread);
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > The call to sig_dispatch_pending is meant for the case where
> > > there is a pending signal. Assume there indeed is one.
> > > The call to sig_dispatch_pending will setup an interrupt in sigsave. 
> > > The return address on the stack will be the first interruptible return 
> > > address above sig_dispatch_pending, i.e. the return address of writev.
> > > The handler will not be entered until writev returns.
> >
> >
> > Ok.  I see what you mean but the old code was not actually right either.
> > I wrote a test case (enclosed) which sent a signal to a process running
> > a modified version of cygwin1.dll after the call to sigframe
> > ("guaranteed" with the judicious use of Sleep) in sig_dispatch_pending.
> > The 'ouch' wasn't triggered by the either the old or new cygwin code.
> > So, I've checked in new code in sig_dispatch_pending.
>
>
> Why would the ouch be triggered? The parent is long dead when
> the child kills its ppid, which by that time is 1.


`a modified version of cygwin1.dll...  ("guaranteed" with the judicious
use of Sleep)'

cgf


