# Re: [PATCH] regtool: allow /proc/registry{,32,64}/ registry path prefix

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-11-13T16:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [25ea45b6-8d61-3cb8-7e7c-db55c2ef8018@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/25ea45b6-8d61-3cb8-7e7c-db55c2ef8018@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/16-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/11/13/16-50-00)

On 2019-11-13 02:38, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 13 09:46, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 11 10:29, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > The user can supply the registry path prefix /proc/registry{,32,64}/ to
> > > use path completion.
> >
> > The git commit message does not outline why you're changing the example,
> > Given that the example doesn't use /proc/registry anyway, what's the
> > reasoning?  This should either be a patch on its own or at least this
> > should be mentioned in the commit message.
>


I explained in my earlier reply that it showed forward slashes and fit the doc
pages better; adding /proc/registry/... would be difficult to fit in the width!

> Sigh, I accidentally pushed this patch as is.  Never mind then.


In my earlier reply I said something which could be added to the commit message
with an --amend, if you wish:

Change doc example to be consistent and a better choice to show
forward slashes, and fit the width of the docs.

New COMMIT_MSG:
regtool: allow /proc/registry{,32,64}/ registry path prefix

The user can supply the registry path prefix /proc/registry{,32,64}/
to use path completion.
Change doc example to be consistent and a better choice to show
forward slashes, and fit the width of the docs.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


