# Re: hierarchy in setup (category stuff)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-developers@cygwin.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-29T17:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [032001c100fe$d62310c0$806410ac@local](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/032001c100fe$d62310c0$806410ac@local) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/07-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/29/17-49-00)

This is what I've got right now.

> Known bugs:
> 1) The partial view when you enter the package list has a scroll bar one
> line too many long.


Not addressed. May not be present with the default view now categories.

> 2) The category view always shows _all_ packages. There's no
> category-partial view. Do we need one?


not addressed.

3) I haven't added the lex rule for multi category parsing yet (but the
suporting c code is there.

I've changed the default view to categories. (It's the view constructor
call).

> > > I just played with this and I like what I see.
> > >
> > > I had a hard time getting all of the changes into the current CVS,
> >
>

though,
> > > and the view was sort of screwed up.
> >
>


clean patch attached.

> Either way, there would still be problems.  I think that they are mainly

because
> of Michael's white space fixes.
>
> I sometimes wish that we had a C/C++ aware version of patch.


My .2c: update your CVS server. I have much much less problems with merges
with the sourceforge CVS server.

> > > Robert, if you are still interested, then I think that this is
> >
>

definitely the
> > > way to go.  If you have something worth checking in, then please do so.
> >
>


I'll draw up change log stuff and send something to cygwin-patches... or did
you want me to hit CVS directly?

> I've included a new patch below.  I took another stab at this and found

that I'd
> wiped out a huge chunk of a function.  setup.exe seems to work much better

now.
>
> I've also included a setup.ini with categories.  I haven't added

dependencies yet.
>
> I'm thinking that we should just nuke the "latest" and "contrib"

directories and
> create directories based on the name of the categories.


I don't think we even need separate directories - they don't do much once
the package system manages the view :].

Rob


---

**Attachments:**

- [choose.h](choose.h) (text)
- [currentsetup.patch](currentsetup.patch) (text)
