# Re: hierarchy in setup (category stuff)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-developers@cygwin.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-29T18:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010629214637.A10975@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010629214637.A10975@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/07-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/29/18-45-00)

On Sat, Jun 30, 2001 at 11:44:30AM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
>
>
> > > > > > Robert, if you are still interested, then I think that this is
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > > definitely the
> > > > > > way to go.  If you have something worth checking in, then please do
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>
> so.
> > >
> > > I'll draw up change log stuff and send something to cygwin-patches... or
> >
>
> did
> > > you want me to hit CVS directly?
> >
> >
> > Go ahead and check it in.  We can tweak it later.
>
>
> Committed.
>
> > I was just thinking of using the directories as an organizational method
> > for the packages on sourceware.  The alternative is to somehow get the
> > information into the setup.hint file there or to add some other file to
> > the directory.  That's a lot of work and it's error-prone.  I can easily
> > foresee erroneously having a Development and a Devlopment (misspelled)
> > category if we do this on a per-package basis.
>
>
> I'm in favour of having that data in the package file itself, and a scanning
> tool that buils setup.ini.


We already have a scanning tool for this.  It builds setup.ini by scanning
the directories.

I guess it could open each tar file and look there, too, but that seems like
overkill for now.

> This is useful for home users as well, and allows a semi-automated
> "package verification" so that you don't have to check for Devlopment.


How would this allow for verification?  Would there be a global list
of accepted categories somewhere?

cgf


