# Re: hierarchy in setup (category stuff)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-developers@cygwin.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-29T18:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [034701c10106$34f6b6e0$806410ac@local](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/034701c10106$34f6b6e0$806410ac@local) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/07-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/29/18-42-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>


> > > > > Robert, if you are still interested, then I think that this is
> > > >
> > >
> >
> > definitely the
> > > > > way to go.  If you have something worth checking in, then please do
> > > >
> > >
> >
>

so.
> >
> > I'll draw up change log stuff and send something to cygwin-patches... or
>

did
> > you want me to hit CVS directly?
>
>
> Go ahead and check it in.  We can tweak it later.


Committed.

> I was just thinking of using the directories as an organizational method
> for the packages on sourceware.  The alternative is to somehow get the
> information into the setup.hint file there or to add some other file to
> the directory.  That's a lot of work and it's error-prone.  I can easily
> foresee erroneously having a Development and a Devlopment (misspelled)
> category if we do this on a per-package basis.


I'm in favour of having that data in the package file itself, and a scanning
tool that buils setup.ini. This is useful for home users as well, and allows
a semi-automated "package verification" so that you don't have to check for
Devlopment. I don't think I'll have time to address that just yet :], but it
is a standard mechanism for .deb, .rpm, and .pkg files..

> As far as the layout on the user's side, I don't really care, except
> that we could almost forgo setup.ini completely and just rely on the
> directory layout for "Install From Current Directory".
>
> The next thing we have to do is add descriptions.  That will involve
> another chooser change.


pick_line:: paint and the package_headers global are all that needs
modification for a bare bones "add description column after the package name
column".

Rob

>
> cgf
>



