# [patch] partial /dev/clipboard support for cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Charles Wilson <cwilson@ece.gatech.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sources.redhat.com |
| **Date** | 2000-10-12T22:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [39E6A45B.100411BB@ece.gatech.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/39E6A45B.100411BB@ece.gatech.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](22-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/10/12/22-54-00)

(my apologies if this is a duplicate message; I'm having trouble with my
mail server)

This patch provides limited /dev/clipboard capability for cygwin.  The
limitations are:

1) read-only

2) /dev/clipboard can only be read all-at-once -- no buffering.  It
should be possible to provide seek() capability so that the contents of
the clipboard can be read in multiple small chunks, but thread safety is
an issue.  I felt it best to get the initial support into cygwin, and
then try to add seek() support and buffering. 

Note that since /bin/cat uses a small buffer (1024 bytes), "cat
/dev/clipboard" only works reliably if the contents of the clipboard is
smaller than 1024.  The following snippet of code can be used to
demonstrate that, with a large enough buffer, "read the whole thing at
once" *does* work.  Just change 'BUFSZ' to a value larger than the
clipboard contents.  (For testing purposes, I found the "putclip"
program useful -- so I could "put" a file of known size into the windows
clipboard.  You can get putclip from
http://cygutils.netpedia.net/misc.tar.gz )

----clip-----
```
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

#define BUFSZ 72000
```


int main(int argc, char * argv[])
{
```
	char buf[BUFSZ+1];
	int fd;
	fd = open("/dev/clipboard", O_BINARY | O_RDONLY );
	read(fd, buf, BUFSZ);
	buf[BUFSZ] = '\0';
	printf("%s", buf);
```

}
------clip-----

--Chuck

2000-10-13  Charles Wilson  <cwilson@ece.gatech.edu>

	* winsup/cygwin/Makefile.in: add libuser32.a to the list of
DLL_IMPORTS,
```
	and include fhandler_clipboard.o in the list of DLL_OFILES
	* winsup/cygwin/dtable.cc (dtable::build_fhander): check for
```

FH_CLIPBOARD
	* winsup/cygwin/fhandler.h: add fhandler_dev_clipboard to comments, add
	FH_CLIPBOARD to fhandler enum
	* winsup/cygwin/fhandler.h (fhandler_dev_clipboard): new declaration
	* winsup/cygwin/path.cc (windows_device_names): add "\\dev\\clipboard"
	* winsup/cygwin/path.cc (get_device_number): check for FH_CLIPBOARD
	* winsup/cygwin/winsup.h: add a few more #defines from winuser.h
	* winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc: new file
fhandler_clipboard.cc.gz
clipboard.patch6a.gz



---

**Attachments:**

- [clipboard.patch6a.gz](clipboard.patch6a.gz) (application)
- [fhandler_clipboard.cc.gz](fhandler_clipboard.cc.gz) (application)
