# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Yaakov (Cygwin/X) <yselkowitz@users.sourceforge.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2012-10-21T16:38:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1350837515.1244.31.camel@YAAKOV04](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1350837515.1244.31.camel@YAAKOV04) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/21/16-38-00)

On Sun, 2012-10-21 at 13:33 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On second thought... considering that w32api is now Mingw64 based, and
> considering that building Cygwin with this Mingw64 built w32api works
> fine... what do you guys think about a "once and for all" approach?  Is
> it really necessary to keep supporting a build against the old w32api?
> What does that buy us apart from added complexity?  Doesn't that also
> mean we have to test our builds against both w32api versions as long as
> we support it?  I, for one, have no real interest to do so.


AFAICS the momentum has been moving towards mingw-w64 since Fedora
switched for F17; I'm seeing more and more packages which compile with
mingw-w64 but not with mingw.org's toolchain.  Now that we've moved to a
mingw-w64-based w32api, F16 (the last release to use mingw.org) will be
EOL soon enough (one month after F18), and mingw-w64 is absolutely
required for adding x64 support, I agree that this would be a good time
to just switch and be done with it.  (Does the same apply to setup.exe?)

That does raise a related, but off-topic here, question as to whether we
need to continue supporting both toolchains in the distro, or if we
should just drop mingw-* and possibly rename mingw64-{i686,x86_64} to
mingw32- and mingw64- as Fedora has done.  But I imagine that may be a
bit contentious for some, so let's discuss that elsewhere.


Yaakov



