# Re: SSH -R problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-05-02T08:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020502173110.A15039@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020502173110.A15039@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/29/18-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/05/02/08-31-00)

On Tue, Apr 30, 2002 at 10:12:08AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > That makes sense... but doesn't that again break something else?
>
>
> What it might break is the case for which linger was added in the first 
> place, i.e. processes terminating and Windows flushing their outgoing 
> packet queue (in the case of slow connections), as opposed to Unix, 
> which maintains the queue for a while after process termination.
> [...]
> Short of something like this we are between a rock and a hard place.
> I would think that applications that go to the trouble of setting the
> socket to non-blocking care more about not blocking than about potentially
> dropping packets at the end of their life.


The really ugly situation is that even a non-blocking connection
oriented socket (tcp) is expected to behave reliable.  That means
it shouldn't drop packets near the end of it's life time unless
it's absolutely necessary (e. g.  a defined connection timeout).
Did I say that I hate Winsock?

I'd propose to try it first as I said in my previous mail:

```
   if nonblocking
     set to blocking
   set linger to 2MSL
   closesocket

```

The nice thing is that nobody holds us from experimenting with that.
If we find that it more hurts than helps we could do a hard close
for nonblocking sockets as you proposed.

Would that be ok with you?

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


