# Re: [Patch]: Setting the winpid in pinfo

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-09-11T02:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040911024905.GF15401@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040911024905.GF15401@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/01-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/09/11/02-47-00)

On Fri, Sep 10, 2004 at 09:29:35PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 12:15 AM 9/8/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Sep 07, 2004 at 09:26:02PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> >
> > > Also, on WinME, simply holding down ^C in the bash shell will
> > > cause a crash (thanks to Errol Smith)
> > > ~>     142 [sig] BASH 1853149 handle_threadlist_exception: 
> > > handle_threadlist_exception called with threadlist_ix -1
> > >    1751 [sig] BASH 1853149 handle_exceptions: Exception: 
> > > STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION
> > >
> > > Any idea about what's happening? I have been unable to
> > > make any progress.
> >
> >
> > I'll see if I can duplicate the problem with VMware.  That's the only
> > WinME system that I have available to me currently.
>
>
> Should we appeal for the donation of a small laptop? It wouldn't
> crowd your office much. BTW, I keep my Win95 in my guestroom,
> so my guests can check their e-mail.
>
> Here are 2 other small changes.
>
> When killing the (system stressing) program I used to track the
> fork bug, I noticed that it occasionally leaves stray processes
> behind, as in
> 821 49315459       1  557307 4245651837    0  740 20:50:10 /c/HOME/PIERRE/A
> 0x821 = PID_INITIALIZING + PID_ORPHANED + PID_IN_USE
> What's happening is that there is a race between the winpids
> scanning in kill_pgrp and the creation of new processes.
> The patch in fork.cc improves the situation by exiting
> children immediately when the parent dies during a fork.
>
> Also a ^C immediately terminates processes that are initializing.
> That is not desirable for processes created by Cygwin processes. 
> The patch in exceptions.cc changes that.


I don't understand.  You're removing an exit on a CTRL-C in
exceptions.cc and essentially adding it to fork.cc.  How is that an
improvement?  Why aren't both parent and child going away when they see a
CTRL-C already?  If the child process has not become fully awake yet
it should just exit now.

cgf


