# Re: [Patch]: Setting the winpid in pinfo

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-09-11T03:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20040910231337.007e0100@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20040910231337.007e0100@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/01-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/09/11/03-17-00)

At 10:49 PM 9/10/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Sep 10, 2004 at 09:29:35PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> > Here are 2 other small changes.
> >
> > When killing the (system stressing) program I used to track the
> > fork bug, I noticed that it occasionally leaves stray processes
> > behind, as in
> > 821 49315459       1  557307 4245651837    0  740 20:50:10 /c/HOME/PIERRE/A
> > 0x821 = PID_INITIALIZING + PID_ORPHANED + PID_IN_USE
> > What's happening is that there is a race between the winpids
> > scanning in kill_pgrp and the creation of new processes.
> > The patch in fork.cc improves the situation by exiting
> > children immediately when the parent dies during a fork.
> >
> > Also a ^C immediately terminates processes that are initializing.
> > That is not desirable for processes created by Cygwin processes. 
> > The patch in exceptions.cc changes that.
>
>
> I don't understand.  You're removing an exit on a CTRL-C in
> exceptions.cc and essentially adding it to fork.cc.


The change in fork.cc affects all signals, not only ^C
Without the change, you get those stray orphan processes
on "kill -9 parent". And 5 minutes (FORK_WAIT_TIMEOUT) later
you get a fatal_api message on your screen, for no apparent reasons.

> How is that an improvement?  Why aren't both parent and child going away 
> when they see a CTRL-C already?


The parent may have chosen to ignore the ^C, in which case it will 
stay alive. Its fork will then fail unexpectedly. Few programs are
designed to retry on a failed fork. With the change, all goes well.

> If the child process has not become fully awake yet it should just exit now.


Not if it is destined to ignore ^C. The group leader will wait until the 
[grand]child has grown up and its sendsig is != NULL, and then send the
signal.
The child will then handle it properly.

The motivation for looking at this was
<http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2004-07/msg01120.html>, as well as personal
observations. I have run thousands of tests and eveything has gone well.

Pierre


