# Re: [PATCH 4/5] cygwin: faq-programming-6.21 install tips

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | John Haugabook <johnhaugabook@gmail.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-06-27T10:40:44+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aF5ZDMBwxl6NWUWv@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aF5ZDMBwxl6NWUWv@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../25/01-39-03.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/27/08-40-44)

On Jun 25 22:11, John Haugabook wrote:
> Hi Corinna and Achim,
>
> > This shouldn't be necessary.  On Fedora the ParserDetails.ini file is
> > part of the perl-XML-SAX package but apparently it isn't in the
> > Cygwin package.  Is there a reason for that?  The user shouldn't
> > have to create the file manually...
>
>
> Two things:
> 1. The error appears on both builds, but is slightly different in the
> cygwin install
> 2. Sorry, but out of ignorance I didn't mention that the error was
> from the "src" install
> (hoping this makes for good new user feedback regarding build section).
>
> The error output (with context before and after) from the cygwin install was:
> """""""""""""""
> make[3]: Entering directory
> '/oss/src/newlib-cygwin/build/x86_64-pc-cygwin/winsup/doc'
> ```
>   GEN      Makefile.dep
>   GEN      cygwin-ug-net/cygwin-ug-net.pdf
>   GEN      cygwin-api/cygwin-api.pdf
>   GEN      cygwin-api/cygwin-api.html
>   GEN      cygwin-ug-net/cygwin-ug-net.html
>   GEN      faq/faq.html
> ```
>
> Element listitem in namespace '' encountered in answer, but no template matches.
> ```
>   GEN      faq/faq.body
>   GEN      cygwin-ug-net/cygwin-ug-net-nochunks.html.gz
>   GEN      api2man.stamp
>   GEN      intro2man.stamp
>   GEN      utils2man.stamp
>   GEN      charmap
>   GEN      cygwin-api.info
> ```
>
> #HERE
> could not find ParserDetails.ini in /usr/share/perl5/vendor_perl/5.40/XML/SAX
> warning : xmlAddEntity: invalid redeclaration of predefined entity 'lt'
>   GEN      cygwin-ug-net.info
> # HERE
> could not find ParserDetails.ini in /usr/share/perl5/vendor_perl/5.40/XML/SAX
> warning : xmlAddEntity: invalid redeclaration of predefined entity 'lt'
> docbook2texi://refentry[@id='proc']/refnamediv: section is too deep
> docbook2texi://refsect1[@id='proc-desc']: section is too deep
> # ect....
> """""""""""""""
> The remaining install did not end with an error code (2 usually)
> though, and completed successfully.


So do I understand you right that the manual ParserDetails.ini
generation isn't really required for the doc build to run through?

If so, we shouldn't really care to document it as a requirement.


Corinna


