# Re: [PATCH] Set FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY on files opened by mkstemp() on WinNT

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Vaclav Haisman <V.Haisman@sh.cvut.cz> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-07-22T01:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050722030953.N49904@logout.sh.cvut.cz](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050722030953.N49904@logout.sh.cvut.cz) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/23-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/07/22/01-18-00)

On Thu, 21 Jul 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Fri, Jul 22, 2005 at 01:32:50AM +0200, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > the attached patch sets FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY on files opened by
> > mkstemp() on WinNT class systems.  Theoretically the OS should then be
> > less eager to write such files onto the physical storage and use cache
> > instead.
>
>
> Thank you for the patch but unless you can demonstrate some obvious
> performance improvements I don't think we'll be applying it.  You've
> slowed down (slightly) the common case of calling open for the uncommon
> case of calling mk?temp.


I am not sure what kind of slow down do you mean. Is it the one extra call? In
that case the attached modified patch should fix it. The call to
open_with_attributes() in open() gets inlined, I have checked the resulting .s
file.

>
> Also, if this was to be accepted, the preference for this type of thing
> is to add a capability like wincap.has_file_attribute_temporary () rather
> than just relying on is_winnt ().


Done.

>
> cgf
>



VH


2005-07-22  Vaclav Haisman  <v.haisman@sh.cvut.cz>

	* wincap.h (wincap::has_file_attribute_temporary): New field.
	(wincapc::has_file_attribute_temporary): New accessor.
	* wincap.cc (wincap_unknown): Initialize
	has_file_attribute_temporary field.
	(wincap_95): Ditto.
	(wincap_95osr2): Ditto.
	(wincap_98): Ditto.
	(wincap_98se): Ditto.
	(wincap_me): Ditto.
	(wincap_nt3): Ditto.
	(wincap_nt4): Ditto.
	(wincap_nt4sp4): Ditto.
	(wincap_2000): Ditto.
	(wincap_xp): Ditto.
	(wincap_2003): Ditto.
	* syscalls.cc (open_with_attributes): Rename open() to
	open_with_attributes(). Add fileattr parameter and use it. Add
	explicit mode_t parameter for mode. Tweak debugging
	syscall_printf() calls to reflect the new parameter.
	(open): Reimplement using open_with_attributes().
	* fhandler.cc (fhandler_base::open): Use pc.file_attributes() when
	opening disk file.
	* mktemp.cc (_gettemp): Set FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY on WinNT
	using open_with_attributes().


---

**Attachments:**

- [file_attribute_temporary.patch](file_attribute_temporary.patch) (text)
- [file_attribute_temporary.ChangeLog](file_attribute_temporary.ChangeLog) (text)
