# Re: [PATCH] Set FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY on files opened by mkstemp() on WinNT

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Vaclav Haisman <V.Haisman@sh.cvut.cz> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-07-22T19:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050722213948.D72295@logout.sh.cvut.cz](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050722213948.D72295@logout.sh.cvut.cz) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/23-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/07/22/19-43-00)

On Fri, 22 Jul 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Fri, Jul 22, 2005 at 12:28:08PM +0200, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > On Thu, 21 Jul 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Fri, Jul 22, 2005 at 03:17:33AM +0200, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > > > On Thu, 21 Jul 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > > On Fri, Jul 22, 2005 at 01:32:50AM +0200, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > > > > > the attached patch sets FILE_ATTRIBUTE_TEMPORARY on files opened by
> > > > > > mkstemp() on WinNT class systems.  Theoretically the OS should then be
> > > > > > less eager to write such files onto the physical storage and use cache
> > > > > > instead.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Thank you for the patch but unless you can demonstrate some obvious
> > > > > performance improvements I don't think we'll be applying it.  You've
> > > > > slowed down (slightly) the common case of calling open for the uncommon
> > > > > case of calling mk?temp.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I am not sure what kind of slow down do you mean.  Is it the one extra
> > > > call?
> > >
> > >
> > > It was more than one extra call, but yes.
> > >
> > > > In that case the attached modified patch should fix it.  The call to
> > > > open_with_attributes() in open() gets inlined, I have checked the
> > > > resulting .s file.
> > >
> > >
> > > Can you demonstrate some obvious performance improvements?  Does it
> > > speed up configure, make bash start up faster, make the rxvt window
> > > faster to show up?
> >
> >
> > I don't think that any of the extra ifs and assignments could cause any
> > measurable slowdown.  I also do not think that there are any _obvious_
> > speed ups.  It is merely a hint to the cache subsystem, not a silver
> > bullet.
>
>
> I wasn't asking if there was a slowdown.  I wanted to know the rationale
> for this change.  Increasing code complexity for no obvious gain is not
> something that I want to do.


The only rationale I can offer is the docs
(http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/fileio/fs/createfile.asp)
and that it makes sense.

VH


