# Re: --enable-runtime-pseudo-reloc support in cygwin, take 3.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Charles Wilson <cwilson@ece.gatech.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-07T16:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DF2947F.8010308@ece.gatech.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DF2947F.8010308@ece.gatech.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/08-32-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/07/16-39-00)

Charles Wilson wrote:

> I've tested Egor's patch and it seems to work just fine, as demonstrated 
> by the two test cases he posted last week, AND as demonstrated by the 
> test case posted to the binutils list some months ago (it tested 
> pseudo-reloc behavior in the child after a fork).
>
> I've also tested Egor's runtime reloc support with Ralf's binutils "use 
> the DLL as the import lib" and it ALSO works fine in all three cases.
>
> I'm going to continue using ld.exe-ralf and 
> cygwin1.dll-egor/libcygwin.a-egor for my day-to-day use, just to see if 
> something wacky crops up...

[snip]
> On balance, I agree that #1 is the best option.  Unless I run afoul of 
> some unforseen wackiness in the next few days, recommend inclusion as is 
> (in the most recent iteration, e.g. no cygwin.sc changes)


So far, no problems.  I'm gonna go on record in favor of this patch, in 
its 4th incarnation 
(http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q4/msg00222.html).

given that winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c(*) still retains its BSD licensing 
and comments, there's no reason to change the (non-)license/public 
domain attribution in egor's pseudo-relocs.c file.  Egor's patch #4 
should be able to be committed as-is.

--Chuck

(*) winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c still retains the original 
BSD-with-advert license which is explicitly incompatible with the GPL. 
And since it is the NetBSD variant, it doesn't fall under the 
"rescinded" announcement made by the Berkeley folks:

ftp://ftp.cs.berkeley.edu/pub/4bsd/README.Impt.License.Change

(the NetBSD folks are quite clear that they LIKE the advertisement 
clause in their license)

However, the FreeBSD folks DO abide by the "rescind clause 3" decision; 
perhaps we should replace our (modified) getopt.c with a similarly 
modified one from FreeBSD?



