# Re: --enable-runtime-pseudo-reloc support in cygwin, take 3.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-07T17:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021208014438.GB10595@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021208014438.GB10595@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/08-32-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/07/17-43-00)

On Sat, Dec 07, 2002 at 07:38:23PM -0500, Charles Wilson wrote:
> Charles Wilson wrote:
>
> > I've tested Egor's patch and it seems to work just fine, as demonstrated 
> > by the two test cases he posted last week, AND as demonstrated by the 
> > test case posted to the binutils list some months ago (it tested 
> > pseudo-reloc behavior in the child after a fork).
> >
> > I've also tested Egor's runtime reloc support with Ralf's binutils "use 
> > the DLL as the import lib" and it ALSO works fine in all three cases.
> >
> > I'm going to continue using ld.exe-ralf and 
> > cygwin1.dll-egor/libcygwin.a-egor for my day-to-day use, just to see if 
> > something wacky crops up...
>
> [snip]
> > On balance, I agree that #1 is the best option.  Unless I run afoul of 
> > some unforseen wackiness in the next few days, recommend inclusion as is 
> > (in the most recent iteration, e.g. no cygwin.sc changes)
>
>
> So far, no problems.  I'm gonna go on record in favor of this patch, in 
> its 4th incarnation 
> (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q4/msg00222.html).
>
> given that winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c(*) still retains its BSD licensing 
> and comments, there's no reason to change the (non-)license/public 
> domain attribution in egor's pseudo-relocs.c file.  Egor's patch #4 
> should be able to be committed as-is.


You know, I don't recall asking for legal opinions.  There is absolutely
no reason why I should trust the legal analysis of anyone who is not a
lawyer.

If public domain of Berkeley licensing was a huge win, then I really
wouldn't be asking anyone to fill out cygwin assignments, would I?

> (*) winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c still retains the original 
> BSD-with-advert license which is explicitly incompatible with the GPL. 
> And since it is the NetBSD variant, it doesn't fall under the 
> "rescinded" announcement made by the Berkeley folks:


Yes, and perhaps you noticed this when I mentioned it in the mingw-dvlpr
mailing list or perhaps not.

Regardless, I don't need an education of what kind of licenses are in
cygwin.  I'm well aware of what's there.

> ftp://ftp.cs.berkeley.edu/pub/4bsd/README.Impt.License.Change
>
> (the NetBSD folks are quite clear that they LIKE the advertisement 
> clause in their license)
>
> However, the FreeBSD folks DO abide by the "rescind clause 3" decision; 
> perhaps we should replace our (modified) getopt.c with a similarly 
> modified one from FreeBSD?


There's a conspicuous lack of an IANAL here.  Odd.

cgf


