# Re: --enable-runtime-pseudo-reloc support in cygwin, take 3.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-07T17:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021208014554.GC10595@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021208014554.GC10595@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/08-32-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/07/17-44-00)

On Sat, Dec 07, 2002 at 08:44:38PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Dec 07, 2002 at 07:38:23PM -0500, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > Charles Wilson wrote:
> >
> > > I've tested Egor's patch and it seems to work just fine, as demonstrated 
> > > by the two test cases he posted last week, AND as demonstrated by the 
> > > test case posted to the binutils list some months ago (it tested 
> > > pseudo-reloc behavior in the child after a fork).
> > >
> > > I've also tested Egor's runtime reloc support with Ralf's binutils "use 
> > > the DLL as the import lib" and it ALSO works fine in all three cases.
> > >
> > > I'm going to continue using ld.exe-ralf and 
> > > cygwin1.dll-egor/libcygwin.a-egor for my day-to-day use, just to see if 
> > > something wacky crops up...
> >
> > [snip]
> > > On balance, I agree that #1 is the best option.  Unless I run afoul of 
> > > some unforseen wackiness in the next few days, recommend inclusion as is 
> > > (in the most recent iteration, e.g. no cygwin.sc changes)
> >
> >
> > So far, no problems.  I'm gonna go on record in favor of this patch, in 
> > its 4th incarnation 
> > (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q4/msg00222.html).
> >
> > given that winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c(*) still retains its BSD licensing 
> > and comments, there's no reason to change the (non-)license/public 
> > domain attribution in egor's pseudo-relocs.c file.  Egor's patch #4 
> > should be able to be committed as-is.
>
>
> You know, I don't recall asking for legal opinions.  There is absolutely
> no reason why I should trust the legal analysis of anyone who is not a
> lawyer.
>
> If public domain of Berkeley licensing was a huge win, then I really

                  or
> wouldn't be asking anyone to fill out cygwin assignments, would I?


cgf


