# Re: [PATCH 1/3 v3] Cygwin: tzcode resync: basics

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-06-10T15:53:07-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [c24d5439-aed4-4ec6-65a0-92f3fcfa0edb@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c24d5439-aed4-4ec6-65a0-92f3fcfa0edb@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/22/09-32-50.thread.md#:~:text=2020/06/10/21-53-07)

On 2020-06-09 22:37, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Tue, 9 Jun 2020, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2020-05-26 02:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On May 26 00:09, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > On May 22 02:32, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > On May 25 14:06, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > >
> > >
> >
> > The tzcode package needs updated to get fixes into zic and zdump.
> > Also tzdata was maintained by Yaakov.
> >
> > Corinna, would you like to keep tzcode co-maintained with Yaakov?
> >
> > Or Mark, would you like to ITA tzcode and/or tzdata to keep it in sync with the
> > base code?
> >
> > Or would you like me to ITA tzcode and/or tzdata?
> > I currently check tzdb weekly in cron to download updates for my own interests.
> > I could add cygport builds to that job.
>
>
> This "tzcode" patch I did was a one-shot task just getting some time zone
> handling code within the Cygwin DLL up to date.  I don't know if there's any
> overlap between what I worked on and the tzcode+tzdata packages.  Eh, just the
> internal binary copy of a particular tzdata file which should be kept up to
> date: /usr/share/zoneinfo/posixrules.  Dunno how often that changes though.
>
> It's fine with me for you to take over both tzcode+tzdata if nobody else
> objects.  Sounds like you have a regular schedule for looking over updates which
> is more than I have :-).


Thanks Mark,

I'll wait to see if we hear from Corinna or ITA if no response soon.
I'm also a subscriber to the timezone ML so see the announcements, but am too
lazy to kick off a manual process, when an automatic process could do it within
the week! ;^>

Cheers!

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in IEC units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


