# Re: [PATCH] suggestion for faster pseudo-reloc.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-09-03T11:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20120903112428.GN13401@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20120903112428.GN13401@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/26/01-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/09/03/11-25-00)

On Sep  3 19:02, JonY wrote:
> On 9/3/2012 18:35, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Sep  3 17:34, JonY wrote:
> > > On 9/3/2012 11:05, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > > > On 9/2/2012 1:51 PM, Jin-woo Ye wrote:
> > > > > Now it is clear that this patch would be needed other relevant projects
> > > > > such as mingw, mingw-w64. thanks for your effort on simplified one.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Yes, while it is not required that all of those systems stay exactly in
> > > > sync, there has been some effort in ensuring that the pseudo-reloc
> > > > implementation used by all three remains very similar if not identical.
> > > >
> > > > Please bring this patch to the attention of the mingw.org and
> > > > mingw64.sf.net people, if it's not too much trouble.
> > > >
> > > > --
> > > > Chuck
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > Original message already forwarded to mingw-w64 devel list. Thanks
> > > Jin-woo Ye.
> >
> >
> > Do you want the patch I eventually applied, too?
> >
> >
> > Corinna
> >
>
>
> Yeah, that will be good too.
>
> I forwarded the CVS commit message too.


It differs a lot from the original source, so you might contemplate
to send a follow up mail to the mingw-w64 devel with the attached
patch.

> I'm not sure if anybody else is
> more suited to comment on it than Kai, he is still on vacation though.


No worries.  I'm on vacation myself.  If my slipped disc hadn't kept me
home, I would be in England now :|


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [pseudo-reloc.diff](pseudo-reloc.diff) (text)
