# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-14T15:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041214154214.GE498@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041214154214.GE498@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/14/15-42-00)

On Tue, Dec 14, 2004 at 09:41:41AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > With the current CVS, I am seeing the same (suboptimal) behavior on
> > Windows Me that I do in 1.5.12.
> >
> > If I type a bunch of "sleep 60&" at the command line, then "bash" won't
> > exit until the last sleep 60 has terminated.  I can't explain why this
> > is.  It doesn't work that way on XP, of course.
> >
> > While "bash" is waiting, I see no sign of it in the process table so
> > it's odd behavior.
>
>
> 1.5.12, the current official release?  I have never observed it there.
> Also my recollection is that the delay was not necessarily equal to the
> sleep duration.


It's 1.5.12, the official release.  Testing anything else wouldn't really
be useful.

If I type

c:\>bash
bash-2.05b$ sleep 20&
bash-2.05b$ exit

There will be a ~20 second wait before bash exits.

I think I vaguely recall this from when I was mucking up the signal code
a year ago.


> > The current CVS should work better with exim now, though.
>
>
> Are you done with the changes?  I will try a snapshot and look at the
> code in the coming days.  Not much free time currently.


I got sidetracked somewhere along the way so, I guess the answer is
"yes, I'm done for now".  I don't have much free time myself, currently
but I thought it would be profitable to check in what I had since it
seems to be working ok in day to day activities with the one odd
non-regression exception above.

cgf


