# Re: [PATCH] Define _TIMEVAL_DEFINED consistently whenever defining  timeval.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Charles Wilson <cygwin@cwilson.fastmail.fm> |
| **To** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **Date** | 2009-09-14T23:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4AAECB58.2030401@cwilson.fastmail.fm](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4AAECB58.2030401@cwilson.fastmail.fm) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/14/23-02-00)

Dave Korn wrote:
> Granted that the whole _TIMEVAL_DEFINED/__USE_W32_SOCKETS thing is basically
> an ugly and undesirable hack, but until we have a plan to fix the whole
> tcl/tk/expect/dejagnu/gdb/insight combo (as well as gnat), I figure we have to
> live with it, and so it should at least be correct consistent and complete.


From this thread:
  http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2008-08/msg00089.html
I thought most people either were in favor of, or at least not opposed
to, "fixing" the */tk/*/insight issue by switching to an X-based tk. It
was just waiting on enough cgf-tuits (and, perhaps, the long-delayed gdb
7.0 release and/or Insight 7.0).

FWIW, I recently had to build my own tcl/tk and python (with pytk)
because I needed the Python Imaging Library but I couldn't get it to
work properly with cygwin-standard python and tk.  (That combo used to
work, but it was a very old version of python, and cygwin-1.5. No longer.)

Anway, tcl-8.5.6 and tk-8.5.6 built easily on a bog-standard cygwin-1.7
system using the cygports derived from the Cygwin Ports project. I
couldn't just use the Cygwin Ports binaries because IIRC they depend on
other Cygwin Ports packages not available in the normal cygwin
distro...and I didn't want to pull in more than I needed.

'Course, this broke my insight since I didn't bother to rebuild gdb.
But, if it would help, I can post these cygport files (which may differ
very slightly from the Cygwin Ports-supplied and -dependent ones).

While doing that, I was curious to see what else this change would break
(e.g. what else relies on tcltk):

suite3270/tcl3270
brltty/tcl-brlapi
parrot/parrot-languages
db/db*/tcl-db*
git/gitk
git/git-gui
expect
WordNet
ruby
catgets
gdb (e.g. insight)
python

which, honestly, isn't very much. I'd be concerned about all those
tcl-db${old_version} packages -- but it looks like there are no
in-distro users of them.  That leaves gdb, ruby, python, git, and parrot
-- all of which have active maintainers.  Plus suite3270 and brltty,
which I'm not sure about.

--
Chuck


