# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: winlean.h: remove most of extended memory API

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-10-13T13:00:06+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201013110006.GF26704@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201013110006.GF26704@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/23/23-52-25.thread.md#:~:text=2020/10/13/11-00-06)

On Sep 24 15:04, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 24/09/2020 00:52, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > This was added as a temporary measure in commit e18f7f99 because it
> > wasn't yet in the mingw-w64 headers.  With one exception, it is now in
> > the current release of the headers (version 8.0.0), so we don't need
> > it in winlean.h.  The exception is that VirtualAlloc2 is only declared
> > conditionally in <w32api/memoryapi.h>, so retain it in winlean.h.  Add
>
>
> I assume it's conditional on the windows version targetted, but it might
> help to mention that in a comment.
>
> > "WINAPI" to its declaration for consistency with the delaration in
> > memoryapi.h.
> >
> > Also revert commit 3d136011, which was a related temporary workaround.
>
>
> Looks good to me.
>
> I think this isn't going work any more with older win32api, but we probably
> don't care about that.  It would perhaps be nice to explicitly complain
> about that (checking __MINGW64_VERSION_MAJOR somehow), rather than exploding
> incomprehensibly if the w32api is too old?
>
> > In particular, I'd like to know if my handling of the declaration of
> > VirtualAlloc2 seems reasonable.  Among other things, I'm puzzled by the
> > apparent need to add WINAPI.  If it's really needed, I don't know how
> > the calls of that function could have worked before.  Can anyone
> > enlighten me?
>
>
> I believe that WINAPI only does something (stdcall) on x86, so it might well
> be that it's never worked on Windows 10 =>1803 x86?


VirtualAlloc2 is only called in x86_64 code, so the WINAPI was not
required.  x86 is a lost case in terms of memory allocation anyway.


Corinna


