# Re: [PATCH 2/3] Provide ucontext to signal handlers

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon TURNEY <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-04-23T13:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [5538F94A.3080402@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5538F94A.3080402@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/13-20-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2015/04/23/13-53-00)

On 01/04/2015 18:36, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 01/04/2015 15:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Apr  1 14:19, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > Add ucontext.h header, defining ucontext_t and mcontext_t types.
> > >
> > > Provide sigaction sighandlers with a ucontext_t parameter, containing
> > > stack and
> > > context information.
> > >
> > >     * include/sys/ucontext.h : New header.
> > >     * include/ucontext.h : Ditto.
> > >     * exceptions.cc (call_signal_handler): Provide ucontext_t
> > >     parameter to signal handler function.
> >
> >
> > Patch is ok with a single change:  Please add a "FIXME?" comment to:
> >
> > ```
> >    else
> >      RtlCaptureContext();
> >
> > ```
> >
> > On second thought, calling RtlCaptureContext here is probably wrong.
> >
> > What we really need is the context of the thread when calling
> > call_signal_handler I think.
>
>
> I had the same thought, but this is going to be quite tricky to achieve.
>
> > It would be better to call RtlCaptureContext
> > before calling call_signal_handler.  But this requires a change in how
> > call_signal_handler is called.
> >
> > We should discuss this at one point, I think.
>


I noticed that we already prepare a context for continuing after the 
signal for the debugger, so perhaps this is not quite as complex as I 
thought and something like the attached is needed.

It's very hard to reason about if this is doing the right thing when the 
signal is delivered across threads, though.



---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Use-the-same-continuation-context-in-a-signal-as-we-.patch](0001-Use-the-same-continuation-context-in-a-signal-as-we-.patch) (text)
