# [PATCH] Cygwin: do retrieve AzureAD users' information again

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-06-03T09:28:29+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [d8fb04d38a45dc3fab500a2cd3ea151b8bf62c9c.1748935646.git.johannes.schindelin@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d8fb04d38a45dc3fab500a2cd3ea151b8bf62c9c.1748935646.git.johannes.schindelin@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-28-29.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/03/07-28-29)

In e04891d67a (Cygwin: fetch_account_from_windows: skip LookupAccountSid
for SIDs known to fail, 2025-04-10), several SIDs acquired a shortcut
where a potentially expensive `LookupAccountSid()` call is avoided for
SIDs that "cannot be resolved".

However, as reported by Robert Fensterman (and independently discovered
by myself), some of the SIDs that received this special shortcut _do_
get resolved by `LookupAccountSid()` calls: AzureAD users' SIDs.

With those SIDs, that newly-introduced shortcut actually does more harm
than good because there is no other way to retrieve the desired
information, resulting in permission problems.

One symptom of this is that `mintty` can no longer access `/dev/ptmx`
and simply errors out with "Error: Could not fork child process: There
are no available terminals (-1)".

Another symptom is that `tmux` is no longer able to create new sessions.
Yet another symptom is new files are unintentionally written with
restricted permissions (copying an `.exe` file, for example, disallows
the copied version to be executed).

The most likely reason why AzureAD SIDs were included in above-mentioned
commit is that special AzureAD _group_ SIDs are not recognized by
`LookupAccountSid()`, as per the code comment for the `azure_grp_sid`
variable. It is plausible that this fact was mistaken to extend to all
AzureAD SIDs, a notion disproved by the counter example of my personal
experience with my own AzureAD user account. Unfortunately, the only way
to find out whether `LookupAccountSid()` works with a given AzureAD SID
or not is to call that function.

To make regular AzureAD user accounts work again, let's just drop the
AzureAD part from that special shortcut.

My understanding of the other SIDs handled by that shortcut (Capability
SIDs, IIS APPPOOL and Samba user/group SIDs) is insufficient to
determine whether they, too, can be resolved by `LookupAccountSid()` in
some cases (and would therefore equally need to be excluded from that
shortcut). At least as far as the Capability SIDs go, I am rather
confident from reading the context (the commit's message, as well as the
report that led to that commit) that the shortcut is safe, and I could
imagine that the same is true for IIS APPPOOL and Samba SIDs. Absent any
further insight, I therefore decided to leave the rest of e04891d67a
(Cygwin: fetch_account_from_windows: skip LookupAccountSid for SIDs
known to fail, 2025-04-10) intact.

Reported-by: Robert Fensterman <minnmass@gmail.com>
Fixes: e04891d67a (Cygwin: fetch_account_from_windows: skip LookupAccountSid for SIDs known to fail, 2025-04-10)
Signed-off-by: Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de>
---
Published-As: https://github.com/dscho/msys2-runtime/releases/tag/support-azure-ad-users-again-cygwin-v1
Fetch-It-Via: git fetch https://github.com/dscho/msys2-runtime support-azure-ad-users-again-cygwin-v1

```
 winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc | 4 ----
 1 file changed, 4 deletions(-)

```

```diff
diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc b/winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc
index 83883f9f65..ffe71ee072 100644
--- a/winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc
+++ b/winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc
@@ -1996,10 +1996,6 @@ pwdgrp::fetch_account_from_windows (fetch_user_arg_t &arg, cyg_ldap *pldap)
       if (sid_id_auth (sid) == 5 /* SECURITY_NT_AUTHORITY */
 	  && sid_sub_auth (sid, 0) == SECURITY_APPPOOL_ID_BASE_RID)
 	break;
-      /* AzureAD SIDs */
-      if (sid_id_auth (sid) == 12 /* AzureAD ID */
-	  && sid_sub_auth (sid, 0) == 1 /* Azure ID base RID */)
-	break;
       /* Samba user/group SIDs */
       if (sid_id_auth (sid) == 22)
 	break;

```

base-commit: 972872c0d396dbf0ce296b8280cee08ce7727b51
-- 
2.49.0.windows.1.9.g16d82dcdbba1


