# Re: [PATCH] you can use this patch to profile cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | jojelino <jojelino@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-07-31T09:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4E351D88.7000806@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4E351D88.7000806@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/11-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/07/31/09-17-00)

On 2011-07-31 PM 5:26, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Erm, I tested on 32 bit.  The slowdown occured on all platforms, not
> only 64 bit.  64 bit is still only half as fast in the date loop for
> reason or reasons unknown.
>
>
> Corinna
>

  I used this code to profile every source compiled with -pg 
-finstrument-functions.
It had no documentation. because it existed solely for the purpose to 
breakdown  the cause of slow start.
Existing profiling code has ability to profile single-thread.so it had 
rare useful when the target is cygwin.(it spawns thread.) so i tried 
gaving them to consider threaded environment.
And modified profiling code uses instrument function to profile every 
function enter/exit. eventually, it resulted in terrible performance 
(2.42x slowdown at least)
when the profiling worker is forced to terminated( 
ExitProcess,abort,exit.. ) it notifies worker thread and joins the thread.
Also, i modified initial startup a little bit.

and here is instruction.
# apply patch
for i in thread_profile_stuff.diff thread_profile_core.diff; do patch 
-p0 <$i;done;
```
# pass configure parameter to build cygwin if you didn't configured it.
# make sure that cygwin is configured and can be built. from now i 
copy-paste some bunch of code.
# in i686-pc-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/Makefile, you should add CFLAGS '-pg 
```

-finstrument-functions' , to make new profiling code effective.
and comment out ifneq "${filter -O%,$(CFLAGS)}" "" too. it would make 
profiling code functional ( in cases you need to profile cygheap thread 
etc...)
#and use following snippet code to build new cygwin1.dll
s='';for i in boundbuffer pthread instrument kernel32 malloc_wrapper 
pseudo-reloc libstdcxx_wrapper cxx gcrt1 gmon profil mcount; do rm $i.o; 
s="${s} ${i}.o";done;  make CFLAGS='-march=-O2 -g -mfpmath=sse 
-Wno-error=unused-but-set-variable' $s -j 4;make;
#there would be no -pg -finstrument-functions in CFLAGS.
#what this does is, keep some source code from to be profiled.
and done. you got new-cygwin1.dll. rename it and try to discover what is 
the problem. because it gave gmon out like gmon.%pid.%tid.out when 
exited. you would use gprof to see report.
Regards.


---

**Attachments:**

- [thread_profile_core.diff](thread_profile_core.diff) (text)
- [thread_profile_stuff.diff](thread_profile_stuff.diff) (text)
