# RE: [PATCH] fix for process virtual size display

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris January <chris@atomice.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-05-24T19:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [ICEBIHGCEJIPLNMBNCMKCEKACGAA.chris@atomice.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ICEBIHGCEJIPLNMBNCMKCEKACGAA.chris@atomice.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/05/24/19-06-00)

> On Tue, May 20, 2003 at 08:31:06AM -0400, Joe Buehler wrote:
> > Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> >
> > > MEM_RESERVE Reserves a range of the process's virtual address space
> > > without allocating any actual physical storage in memory or in
> >
>
> the paging
> > > file on disk. Other memory allocation functions, such as malloc and
> > > LocalAlloc, cannot use a reserved range of memory until it is released.
> >
> >
> > Yes -- I am wondering what Windows is really doing internally, though.
> >
> > What does it mean that no physical storage is allocated in memory?
> > Obviously
> > no pages are allocated.  But do they allocate page tables so
>
> they can catch
> > accesses to the reserved memory?  Or for performance reasons, so it can
> > be changed to committed faster?
> >
> > They're keeping track of reserved memory somehow, the question is what
> > amount of resource is being dedicated to the task.
>
>
> If I understand this thread correctly, Chris is not comfortable with the
> patch as is.  So, I'll wait for an updated patch given his suggestions?


I did some more reading around this and found that a lot of Unix systems
don't actually have a concept of reserved memory. Given that a large amount
of memory is reserved, but never comitted by Cygwin processes, this reserved
memory skews the vmsize quite a bit. With this patch, the values are a lot
more like Linux, therefore I'm actually for this patch being committed.

Chris


