# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Fixing the math behind rounding down ch.stacklimit to page size

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Tim Adye <T.J.Adye@rl.ac.uk> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-07-03T17:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [e4a67fb2-229b-3b7e-cfc0-402f9ec940e5@rl.ac.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/e4a67fb2-229b-3b7e-cfc0-402f9ec940e5@rl.ac.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/05/11-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/07/03/17-12-00)

Hi Corinna, Sergejs,

Sorry, I should have followed up in this thread sooner. I can confirm 
that I tested the x86_64 cygwin1-20180607.dll.xz snapshot and it 
resolved my issue with bash with HitmanPro.

Thanks!
Tim.

On 05/06/2018 12:16, Tim Adye wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On 29 May, 18:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Sergejs,
> >
> > On May 25 17:43, Sergejs Lukanihins wrote:
> > > Hello,
> > > > Looks like ch.stacklimit wasn't being page-aligned correctly in
> > >
> > > fork.cc; you need to subtract 1 from page_size to do it correctly (see
> > > the attached patch).
> > > > As a result, this was causing stack-overflow exceptions whenever the
> > >
> > > stack needed to grow beyond the stacklimit value. When the stack grows
> > > beyond stacklimit value, Windows uses ntdll!_chkstk() function to
> > > check the stack and map in additional stack pages. However, it expects
> > > stacklimit to be page aligned, and the function does not work
> > > correctly if it is not (it triggers STATUS_STACK_OVERFLOW, even if
> > > there is enough stack space).
> > > > Normally, this was not causing any issues, as the stack never really
> > >
> > > needs to grow, but it was causing issues when AV software was being
> > > injected into the process (specifically, HitmanPro.Alert being
> > > injected into git’s sh.exe process). Due to function hooks, it lead to
> > > a bigger callstack, and more stack space being required. Making the
> > > change specified in the patch actually resolves the issue.
> > > > I am providing my patches to the Cygwin sources under the 
> > >
> >
> > 2-clause BSD license.
> >
> > Good catch!  Patch pushed.
>
> Thanks for adding this patch, and thanks to Sergejs for providing it!
>
> I think I may have encountered this problem (fork failures for some 
> constructs in bash, only when HitmanPro is enabled). Would it be 
> possible to make a new cygwin1.dll snapshot so I can test that? I 
> tested the current x86_64 snapshot, which was produced just hours 
> before this patch. That still exhibits the problem, but seems to work 
> fine otherwise.
>
> Thanks,
> Tim.



