# Re: [PATCH 0/4] cygwin-htdocs: faq.html edits

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | johnhaugabook@gmail.com |
| **Date** | 2025-06-23T22:04:47+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aFmzX4CARCb0810R@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aFmzX4CARCb0810R@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/08-19-58.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/23/20-04-47)

Hi John,

On Jun 22 04:19, johnhaugabook@gmail.com wrote:
> From: jhauga <johnhaugabook@gmail.com>
>
> This patch series contains several focused documentation edits to faq.html


A couple of problems with your patches:

- First and foremost, you're patching the wrong file.  faq/faq.html is
```
  in fact an autogenerated file. The source is actually an XML file
  in the Cygwin repository itself: winsup/doc/faq.xml.

```

- Given the file you change is actually part of Cygwin, please add
  a "Cygwin:" prefix to your commit message summary line.

- Your commit messages should explain what your doing and a bit of
```
  why wouldn't hurt either.  Just the summary line is a bit on the
  terse end.

```

- Please give a real name as author name, and...

- ...please add a "Signed-off-by:" line.  This isn't necessary for your
```
  second patchset only changing a file actually maintained in
  cygwin-htdocs.

```

- Especially patch 4/4 is questionable.  I don't even understand what
```
  your summary line means, and the patch looks pretty big.  What is it
  doing?  Some explanation and splitting the patch if possible, please?

```


Thanks,
Corinna


>
> Changes include:
> - In section 6.21 - added additional required packages for installation of newlib-cygwin. The packages added are build: libtool; dumper utility: libiconv, libiconv2; documentation: perl-XML-SAX-Expat, docbook-utils. Also ordered packages alphabetically as this makes it easier when using GUI of setup-x86_64.exe when selecting packages.
> - In section 6.21 - added example of calling setup-x86_64.exe to do a preliminary search when installing packages, as there are nearly a dozen packages, and because it can take over 30 minutes for the installation to complete; and if all the required packages are not downloaded, the install will fail at like minute 29.
> - In section 6.21 - added an additional paragraph and tips regarding the install process.
> - Added section 3.4 - instructions on how to build local version of site from "https://cygwin.com/git.html". Instructions mainly specify how to configure local server's httpd.conf file, and downloading a command line tool. In example used httpd install with "winget install ApacheLounge.httpd".
>
> These patches were created against the latest upstream `master` branch.
>
> Thanks for your review and feedback.
>
> jhauga (4):
> ```
>   faq.html: add 5 required packages and sort packages
>   faq.html: add ready-made -P download commands
>   faq.html: section 6.21 tips and additions
>   faq.html: add 3.4 run cloned site locally
>
>  faq/faq.html | 93 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++-------------
>  1 file changed, 71 insertions(+), 22 deletions(-)
>
> ```
>
> -- 
> 2.46.0.windows.1
>



