# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: lock cygheap during fork

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-09-21T19:44:31+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [38ff84d9-6924-4a7d-bdee-0266810a7d5d@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/38ff84d9-6924-4a7d-bdee-0266810a7d5d@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/21-43-56.thread.md#:~:text=2025/09/21/18-44-31)

On 20/09/2025 20:52, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Sat, 20 Sep 2025, Jon Turney wrote:
>
> > On 19/09/2025 22:43, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > another thread may simultaneously be doing a cmalloc/cfree while the
> > > cygheap is being copied to the child.
> >
> >
> > Makes sense. Please apply.
>
>
> Done (and cygwin-3_6-branch)
>
> >
> > > Addresses: https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2025-September/258801.html
> > > Signed-off-by: Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com>
> > > ---
> > > I'm seeing a timeout failure of pthread/cancel2.exe test in GitHub CI.
> > > This seems to be happening even without this change, so perhaps it is more
> > > to do with the update to windows-2025 runners?  In any event, this
> > > prevents the 'stress' jobs from running against this change.
> >
> >
> > Thank you *so much* for keeping an eye on that!
>
>
> I did a test run downgrading the windows-build job to windows-2022, and
> all the tests succeed there.  I still have no idea why the pthread/cancel2
> test times out on windows-2025 though.


Hmm... odd.

Please feel free to push that change to the yml, if you think that's 
appropriate.

I did have some struggles with the cancel tests when I was getting the 
testsuite working again, because there's a bit of funkiness in cygwin 
where async cancellation sometimes silently turns into a deferred 
cancellation because we can't stop a thread while it's inside the NT 
kernel... but I can't see how that could cause a test like this to 
timeout rather than simply fail?



