# Re: allow read into untouched noreserve mappings

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-07-18T20:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060718201228.GG27029@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060718201228.GG27029@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/17-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/07/18/20-12-00)

On Jul 18 11:59, Brian Ford wrote:
> On Tue, 18 Jul 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > I applied your patch to the cv-branch with some changes.  The way you
> > are calling search_record (see there)
> >
> > > ```diff
> > > +      long record_idx = map_list->search_record ((caddr_t)addr, 1,
> > > +						 u_addr, u_len, -1);
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > always returns a u_len of 1.  The result is that for each page in
> > memory, the loop runs 4096 times in the worst case.
>
>
> I see that now :-(.
>
> I confess to not understanding the purpose and inner workings of either
> search_record implementation.  I first tried the two parameter version,
> but then realized it was searching through file offsets rather than map
> addresses (what is that usefull for?).


The answer is in list::try_map.  It tries to find a suitable, unused
record which can be reused for another mapping.  The idea here is to
accomodate old, non-standard implementations which assume that two
consecutive mappings are using consecutive pages in memory.  An example
are old autoconf tests.  This was more of a problem when getpagesize()
was 4K.  Today it will only be used on 9x due to the alignment bug I'm
referring to in mmap64.

> What I wanted was a function that returned the mmap record for an
> arbitrary address [range].  That seems pretty basic.  Why is there not
> such a thing?
>
> > I added the necessary alignment stuff
>
>
> See, I don't understand why every caller should need to do "the necessary
> alignment stuff"?


It's simply working as designed.  Did I claim somewhere that the code is
perfect?  I don't think so.  If you have a better or more elegant
solution, provide a patch.  It's as easy as that.

> > and minimized the number of calls to VirtualAlloc.
>
>
> Yeah, that was the concept I was going for.  Find the map that this
> address belongs to, commit the smaller of the address range for the region
> or the map, repeat while there is still an uncommitted address range.


You don't have to apologize.  You did that, just the search_record call
was incorrect.  To find this requires some debugging, that's all.

> > Don't be surprised that I now used getpagesize() instead of
> > getsystempagesize ().  [...]
>
>
> I know this dichotomy has been discussed at length before and there
> doesn't seem to be any win-win compromise.  I'm not sure if I agree or not
> *shrug*, but my opinion doesn't matter much anyway.


You know the problem of page size vs. allocation granularity, right?
I was fighting for keeping the page size in Cygwin at 4K for a long time
but at one point it got just too awkward to support it any longer,
so I gave up.  There's really no reason to go through this once again.

> One minor nit though, this stuff could be moved after the check for an
> empty mmap region list.


Indeed.  But, hey, this is the cygwin-patches list.  Just provide a
patch!

> > Thanks for the patch.  It's available for further digestion and patches
> > in the cv-branch.
>
>
> I guess it'll be a while then before this hits a release then :-(.  Thanks
> for applying anyway.


Sure.  The branch will be folded back into the main line after 1.5.21
has been released which will be very soon.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


