# Re: [RFC] Reference counting on Audio objects for /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-07-15T18:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040715183335.GB12149@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040715183335.GB12149@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/07/15/18-34-00)

On Thu, Jul 15, 2004 at 09:44:34AM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> Gerd,
>
> I'd really like your comments on this patch.  As I reported before, it
> didn't quite work for me, but with the recent problems in testing another
> (presumably working) patch, I suspect my test procedure isn't quite
> correct anyway.  The patch basically adds a (very problem-specific)
> reference count to the Audio object(s), and doesn't delete the shared ones
> until all pointers are gone.  It doesn't seem to fix the bash redirection
> problem, but does allow the "dsp_dup_close" testcase to run (again, I'd
> like your opinion on whether it runs correctly).
>
> The ChangeLog below is just for the record -- as I said, I don't expect
> this to be checked in yet.
> 	Igor
> ==============================================================================
> ChangeLog:
> 2004-07-06  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>
>
> 	* fhandler_dsp.cc (fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::reference_count_):
> 	New instance variable.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::inc): New function.  Increment the
> 	reference_count_.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::dec): New function.  Decrement the
> 	reference_count_ and delete if zero.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::close): Replace delete with a call to dec().
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::dup): Copy audio_in_ and audio_out_ and call
> 	inc() on each.


Thanks for the patch.  I have two problems, though.

1) Some minor problems with GNU formatting:

  fhc->audio_out_ = audio_out_; if (audio_out_) audio_out_->inc ()

should be:

```
  fhc->audio_out_ = audio_out_;
  if (audio_out_)
    audio_out_->inc ()

```

nor is this:

  audio_out_ -> dec ();

should be:

  audio_out_->dec ();

2) The other problem is that I find it sort of odd to see the dec()
method performing a deletion.  Couldn't this be handled where, IMO,
it should logically be handled, in the close function, e.g.,

```
  if (!audio_out_->dec ())
    delete audio_out_;

```

?

cgf


