# Re: [RFC] Reference counting on Audio objects for /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-07-15T18:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.58.0407151449040.24064@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.58.0407151449040.24064@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/07/15/18-57-00)

On Thu, 15 Jul 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Thu, Jul 15, 2004 at 09:44:34AM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > Gerd,
> >
> > I'd really like your comments on this patch.  As I reported before, it
> > didn't quite work for me, but with the recent problems in testing another
> > (presumably working) patch, I suspect my test procedure isn't quite
> > correct anyway.  The patch basically adds a (very problem-specific)
> > reference count to the Audio object(s), and doesn't delete the shared ones
> > until all pointers are gone.  It doesn't seem to fix the bash redirection
> > problem, but does allow the "dsp_dup_close" testcase to run (again, I'd
> > like your opinion on whether it runs correctly).
> >
> > The ChangeLog below is just for the record -- as I said, I don't expect
> > this to be checked in yet.
> > 	Igor
> > ==============================================================================
> > ChangeLog:
> > 2004-07-06  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>
> >
> > 	* fhandler_dsp.cc (fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::reference_count_):
> > 	New instance variable.
> > 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::inc): New function.  Increment the
> > 	reference_count_.
> > 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio::dec): New function.  Decrement the
> > 	reference_count_ and delete if zero.
> > 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::close): Replace delete with a call to dec().
> > 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::dup): Copy audio_in_ and audio_out_ and call
> > 	inc() on each.
>
>
> Thanks for the patch.  I have two problems, though.
>
> 1) Some minor problems with GNU formatting:
>
> ```
>   fhc->audio_out_ = audio_out_; if (audio_out_) audio_out_->inc ()
>   audio_out_ -> dec ();
> ```
>


Thanks for the review.

Yep.  Once we determine whether this works (or if it doesn't, why), I'll
get the formatting in order before resubmitting.  As I said before, I
don't expect this to be checked in for now.

> 2) The other problem is that I find it sort of odd to see the dec()
> method performing a deletion.  Couldn't this be handled where, IMO,
> it should logically be handled, in the close function, e.g.,
>
> ```
>   if (!audio_out_->dec ())
>     delete audio_out_;
> ```
>
> ?


Umm, that's actually a rather standard construct in reference counting
(called "object suicide" -- you should get some references if you Google
for "object suicide reference counting").
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


