# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: Change pthread_sigqueue() to accept thread id

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-03T12:15:01+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ec6ec704-67d1-72fd-0041-87e7372b58f3@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ec6ec704-67d1-72fd-0041-87e7372b58f3@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/19/09-13-20.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/03/11-15-01)

Mark Geisert wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On 10/22/2024 7:45 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Mark,
> >
> > Thanks for looking into this.
> >
> > On Sep 19 02:13, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > Change the first parameter of pthread_sigqueue() to be a thread id 
> > > rather
> > > than a thread pointer. The change is to match the Linux 
> > > implementation of
> > > this function.
> > >
> > > The user-visible function prototype is changed. Simple list 
> > > iteration is
> > > added to the threadlist code. A lookup-by-id function is added to class
> > > pthread. The pthread_sigqueue() function is modified to work with a
> > > passed-in thread id rather than an indirect thread pointer as before.
> > > (It was "pthread_t *thread", i.e., class pthread **.) The release note
> > > for Cygwin 3.6.0 is updated.
> >
> >
> > Even if the old prototype was wrong, we probably have to keep it for
> > backward compatibility.  As unlikely as it seems, but there may be
> > binaries out there actually using the old prototype.
> >
> > We can discuss this probability, but assuming we want to keep backward
> > compat at all cost, we would have to
>
>
> No need to discuss. I'm happy keeping backward compatibility.
>
> > - create a new function like pthread_sigqueue_with_correct_prototype 
> > (heh)
> >
> > - Add this function to cygwin.din as exported symbol
> >
> > - Add a matching entry to NEW_FUNCTIONS in Makefile.am, e.g.,
> >
> >      pthread_sigqueue=pthread_sigqueue_with_correct_prototype,
> >
> > - Implement either pthread_sigqueue_with_correct_prototype calling
> >    pthread_sigqueue or vice versa, whatever makese more sense.
>
>
> I appreciate your redirecting me towards an acceptable solution. I've 
> re-implemented the fix as you've indicated but there's one thing I 
> cannot figure out. (BTW I implemented a new 
> pthread_sigqueue_portable() calling existing pthread_sigqueue().)
>
> In cygwin/include/pthread.h, should both function names appear or just 
> pthread_sigqueue? If the latter, which version of prototype? It seems 
> problematic: We want the include file to have the new, portable, 
> prototype for pthread_sigqueue() don't we? Doesn't that require that 
> the original pthread_sigqueue() be renamed to something else and have 
> it call the new pthread_sigqueue()? Maybe that changes one or more of 
> the steps you wrote above?


If backward compatibility with existing binaries using 
pthread_sigqueue() is desired, I would suggest:
- Keep functionality and export symbol of the existing pthread_sigqueue().
- Use a different export symbol for the new function.
- By default, map the pthread_sigqueue() call to the new symbol.
- Invent a #define that allows to use the old function.

pthread.h:
...
// TODO: Add some comment explaining this hack :-)
int _pthread_sigqueue_with_id(pthread_t, int, const union sigval);

#ifdef _CYGWIN_USE_OLD_PTHREAD_SIGQUEUE
int pthread_sigqueue (pthread_t *, int, const union sigval)
   __attribute__((__warning__("Using old version of pthread_sigqueue()")));
#else
int pthread_sigqueue (pthread_t, int, const union sigval)
   __asm__("_pthread_sigqueue_with_id");
#endif

-- 
Regards,
Christian



