# Re: console enhancements: mouse events etc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Wolff <towo@towo.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-12-14T16:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4B266528.7090006@towo.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4B266528.7090006@towo.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/12/14/16-17-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Tom,
>

Hi Cori,

> On Dec  6 20:24, Thomas Wolff wrote:
>
> > This is my updated and extended patch for a number of console enhancements.
> >
> > ...
> >
> > If you want a subset of the features sooner than others, I may split
> > the patch.
> >
>
> Thanks for the offer.  It would be nice if you could split up the patch
> in the chunks which you're referring to in your ChangeLog entries.  It
> makes it less hard to follow the individual bits.

Sure, although I had hoped I could at least combine a few modifications 
to reduce fiddling around...
Also, since it's always cumbersome to update a patch to a new target 
version, would you be willing to apply some of the features still to the 
current release, 1.7.0-68?
I would provide those first.
My proposal:

Patch 1 (1.7.0-68):
```
* Additional event reporting as described before.
* Add and fix a few rarely used screen attributes as described before.
* Enable ESC prefixing for Alt-AltGr keys, so that e.g. Alt-@ works on 
keyboards where @ is AltGr-q (a one-liner).
```

But if you prefer, I'll make it 3 patches.

Patch 2 (maybe 1.7.0-68, or later, as you like):
* Extend escape sequences for modified function keys to indicate all 
combinations of Ctrl, Shift, Alt, using the rxvt codes.
* Extend escape sequences for modified keypad keys to indicate all 
combinations of Ctrl, Shift, Alt, following the xterm/mintty convention 
for Ctrl and Shift, and the rxvt/linux convention for Alt, to reach 
maximum compatibility.
  Note that Alt handling interfers with the Windows-style Alt-numeric 
character input method but it did so before already, so I didn't break 
anything. However, if that method is desired to work, I would modify my 
patch accordingly.

Patch 3 (maybe 1.7.0-68, or later, as you like):
* Add VT100 graphics mode. It remaps small ASCII letters to line drawing 
graphics and is enabled / disabled in either of two ways:
* Add "Secondary Device Attribute" report option to terminal status reports.
I would like to leave the second in here because both include an update 
of escape sequence parsing. It's in preparation of patch 4.

Patch 4 (to be postponed as there's still some trouble with it):
```
* Fix cursor position reports and terminal status reports to work.

Patch 5 (later, to be investigated):
* Fix control-character mappings (for non-letter controls) on 
```

international keyboards.

Kind regards,
Thomas


