# Re: [RFC] Reference counting on Audio objects for /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-07-16T02:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040716023111.GC13349@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040716023111.GC13349@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/13-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/07/16/02-31-00)

On Thu, Jul 15, 2004 at 04:28:56PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Thu, 15 Jul 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Thu, Jul 15, 2004 at 02:57:17PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > > > 2) The other problem is that I find it sort of odd to see the dec()
> > > > method performing a deletion.  Couldn't this be handled where, IMO,
> > > > it should logically be handled, in the close function, e.g.,
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >   if (!audio_out_->dec ())
> > > >     delete audio_out_;
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > ?
> > >
> > >
> > > Umm, that's actually a rather standard construct in reference counting
> > > (called "object suicide" -- you should get some references if you Google
> > > for "object suicide reference counting").
> >
> >
> > Yes, I thought that would be your answer, however, I don't like the idea
> > of having a method called "inc" which just increments a count and a method
> > called "dec" which decrements a count and, oh, hey, it might delete the
> > object, too.
> >
> > It seems more straightforward to delete audio_out_ in the place where
> > you'd expect it to be deleted rather than having a "dec" call which,
> > if you check, you'll notice that it deletes the buffer.
> >
> > Or, as a compromise, don't call it 'dec'.  Call it something which
> > illustrates what it is doing.
>
>
> Right.  I think the compromise is good -- I was thinking of maybe using
> registerReference() and releaseReference() (or deregister?).  We could
> shorten them by removing "Reference" from the names, too.  In any case,
> I'd wait for Gerd's input before deciding on the specific code to go in.


That sounds good to me.

Now we just need Gerd's ok.

cgf


