# Re: [PATCH 00/11] cygwin-htdocs: website fresh coat of paint

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin core component patch submission and discussion <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-05-05T23:34:44-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [8eea2f86-b335-4c7d-8745-d057176c4aba@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/8eea2f86-b335-4c7d-8745-d057176c4aba@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/19/05-26-48.thread.md#:~:text=2026/05/06/05-34-44)

On 2026-05-04 12:52, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 19/04/2026 06:26, John Haugabook wrote:
> > This is an updated, duplicate of a recent PR. It consist of 11 small patches that
> > when put together as a whole give the website a fresh look. A fresh coat of paint
> > so to speak.
> >
> > Sorry for so many patches, but each is specific, making it easier to pick and
> > choose which to apply. The changes (for the most part) are also very small. And
> > since they are in regards to visual aspects, GitHub Pages (thanks Johannes!) is
> > used in order to demonstrate and compare the proposed changes to the current 
> > site.
> > To toggle the changes quickly press "cc" on the keyboard. The link is:
> >
> > https://jhauga.github.io/cygwin-htdocs/index.html
>
>
> Thanks very much for working on this!
>
> Sorry it took so long for me to get around to looking at these patches.
>
> I've applied several of these, but I have a few comments on the rest.
>
> > Below are the details of each patch in this pull request:
> > - 0006-h1-header-s-font-family-to-sans-serif.patch
> >    - Set the font family to sans serif for `h1` tags
> >    - Keeping other text as serif makes for good visual contrast
> >    - Sans serif is best for digital:
> >      https://ixdf.org/literature/topics/ 
> > typography#:~:text=preferable%20for%20digital%20interfaces
> >      https://medium.com/the-interaction-design-foundation/the-ux-designers- 
> > guide-to-typography-7ddf87288123#:~:text=preferred%20for%20digital%20interfaces
>
>
> I wonder if we should just switch to sans-serif throughout? or just stop 
> specifying the font-family altogether?

Serif fonts tend to be harder to read on LCDs especially mobile with one narrow 
direction where you have to optimize content vs font size.
In general I have always kept sizes to a minimum of 10pt to preserve my 
eyesight, with an exception for condensed/narrow fonts like Arial Narrow, DejaVu 
Sans Condensed, Liberation Sans Narrow, Noto Sans Mono Condensed, Roboto 
Condensed in spreadsheets, and 8pt for long texts needing wrapped or squished.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


