# Re: /proc and /proc/registry

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris January <chris@atomice.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-02-25T13:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [001301c1be40$647220b0$0100a8c0@advent02](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/001301c1be40$647220b0$0100a8c0@advent02) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/02/25/13-46-00)

> On Tue, Feb 19, 2002 at 07:31:04PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Wed, Feb 20, 2002 at 12:11:26AM -0000, Chris January wrote:
> > > > > > > The attached patch (against cygwin-1.3.9-1/winsup/cygwin) adds
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>

support
> > > > > > > for a /proc virtual filesystem and a read-only version of
> > > > > > > /proc/registry.  I've read http://cygwin.com/assign.txt but need to
> > > > > > > sort out the legalese before doing anything.  Partically fufills
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>

Cygwin
> > > > > > > TODO item:
> > > > > > > 2001-11-08    /proc filesystem    Nicos
> > > > > >
> > > > > > I wish I could get people to look at sending in an assigment
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>

*before*
> > > > > > they start doing work.  It would save a lot of time, I think.
> > > > >
> > > > > Can you please verify if you have received the copyright assignment
> > > > > form or not.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I haven't heard anything.  I notify cygwin-patches and
> > >
> >
>

cygwin-developers
> > > > when I hear that I've received an assignment from our main office.
> > > >
> > > > Just to verify, you had both you and your employer send a release
> > >
> >
>

form,
> > > > right?
> > >
> > >
> > > I work as a consultant and I am the sole claimant to the copyright.
> >
> >
> > That's good news.
> >
> > Boy, I hate this part.  This waiting for an assignment part is a real
>

roadblock
> > to development.  I apologize for the necessity of having to go through
>

this.
>
> We have the assignment!
>
> Please resubmit your patch against current CVS sources.

Please find patch against today's CVS attached.
> I'll investigate in more detail now that I am unemcumbered.


Regards
Chris



---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog](ChangeLog) (application)
- [proc.patch](proc.patch) (application)
