# Re: Export fast *rint* functions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Cygwin patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2007-12-21T23:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071221234102.GA23118@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071221234102.GA23118@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/12/21/23-41-00)

On Fri, Dec 21, 2007 at 06:46:06PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
>
> ```
>    Hi gang,
>
>  This patch exports all the new _f_*rint* functions from newlib, adds aliases for
> ```
>
> the non-_f_* names, and redirects the exports for the existing functions
> (rint/rintf/lrint/lrintf) away from the current slow soft float implementation and
> toward the _f_ versions.  The slow soft float implementation is still linked
> internally in the dll against some functions such as nearbyint(), pow(), powf(), and
> a few others.
>
>  As far as I can see, there's no reason not to get rid of the old slow soft-float
> implementations altogether, and that will be the subject of a follow-on patch to
> newlib, but it'll have to wait for Jeff to get back from holiday now.
>
>  Oh, and Happy Christmas! to the MPlayer and ffmpeg teams :)
>
> winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog
>
> 2007-12-21  Dave Korn  <dave.korn@artimi.com>
>
> 	* cygwin.din (_f_lrint, __f_lrint, _f_lrintf, __f_lrintf, _f_lrintl,
> 	__f_lrintl, _f_llrint, __f_llrint, _f_llrintf, __f_llrintf,
> 	_f_llrintl, __f_llrintl, _f_rint, __f_rint, _f_rintf, __f_rintf,
> 	_f_rintl, __f_rintl):  Export fast *rint* functions.
> 	(lrint, lrintf, rint, _rint, rintf, _rintf):  Redirect exports to
> 	alias _f_ versions.
> 	(_lrint, _lrintf):  Added for consistency at the same time.
> 	(lrintl, _lrintl, llrint, _llrint, llrintf, _llrintf, llrintl,
> 	_llrintl, rintl, _rintl):  Add exports aliasing _f_ versions likewise.


Unless I don't know something about these functions, I don't think there
is any reason to add a foo and a _foo.  We haven't been doing that in
cygwin.din for years.

cgf


