# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: fork: Call pthread::atforkchild () after other initializations

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-04-04T10:58:39+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250404105839.6652c8849bfb169d669f3799@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250404105839.6652c8849bfb169d669f3799@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/08-37-44.thread.md#:~:text=2025/04/04/01-58-39)

On Thu, 3 Apr 2025 10:01:07 -0700 (PDT)
Jeremy Drake wrote:
> On Thu, 3 Apr 2025, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
>
> > I still have a question that I would like to be answered in the commit
> > message, too:
> >
> > If `signal_arrived` is only initialized in `fixup_after_fork()` but user
> > callbacks that use this are called by `atforkchild()`, why did this not
> > trigger _all the time_ before your reordering of the calls?
>
>
> Based on my recollections, Takashi probably knows better
>
> 1) there has to be a pthread_atfork child callback registered
> 2) this callback has to call raw_write
> 3) raw_write now calls cygwait (which is now reenterancy-safe due to other
> fallout from this)
> 4) cygwait allows signals to be processed, so needs the signal-handling
> stuff to be properly initialized.
>
> I'm guessing, if raw_write doesn't need to wait (ie, there's room in the
> pipe for the write) it doesn't hit the signal stuff.


Thanks for the explanation. Actually, cygwait() waits for a mutex at the
beginning of raw_write(). This is introduced by the commit 7ed9adb356df,
so the bug does not affect before that commit.

> But I get your request for explaining the scenario in the commit message.


I'll add the descriptions requested by Johannes before push. Thanks!

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


