# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: fork: Call pthread::atforkchild () after other initializations

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-04-04T22:53:37+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250404225337.08412ac9089cc9a066cae4da@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250404225337.08412ac9089cc9a066cae4da@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/08-37-44.thread.md#:~:text=2025/04/04/13-53-37)

On Fri, 4 Apr 2025 14:13:57 +0200 (CEST)
Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> On Fri, 4 Apr 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > On Fri, 04 Apr 2025 07:27:09 +0200 Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> >
> > > Is Jeremy's guess "if raw_write doesn't need to wait (ie, there's room
> > > in the pipe for the write) it doesn't hit the signal stuff" correct?
> > > If so, it would be good to add that part to the commit message because
> > > the commit would otherwise still be incomplete.
> >
> >
> > That's not correct. Indeed, raw_write() waits for room in the pipe,
> > however, it does not matter in this case. The probelm occurs at
> > cygwait() which waits for pipe mutex as already mentioned in the commit
> > message.
>
>
> So what is the explanation, then, that this hung only occasionally and not
> all the time?


As far as I investigated, the event handle signal_arrived was never
initialized all the time. Therefore, the its value is just copied
from the parent. The event signal_arrived is not inheritable, so, 
the handle value is basically not a valid one.

However, the handle value of win32 is a small value such as 0x1ac,
it can easily be the same value with other existing handle.
I observed two cases, one was the value of signal_arrived was a
valid handle value but was not the event handle, the other was the
value was a valid event handle (but not initialize as signal_arrived).

I'm not quite sure why, but most of the cases were one of the above.
Then sometimes its value is really invalid.

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


