# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **Date** | 2026-05-28T16:20:36+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [d35323da-2d69-6fa1-fdc4-d84b3e07c407@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d35323da-2d69-6fa1-fdc4-d84b3e07c407@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2025/07/01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2026/05/28/14-20-36)

Hi Brian, me again,

On Sat, 7 Mar 2026, Johannes Schindelin wrote:

> On Thu, 18 Dec 2025, Brian Inglis wrote:
>
> > On 2025-12-18 15:24, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > On 2025-12-18 00:45, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > > > If Cygwin were merely a personal project of yours, I would understand and
> > > > probably agree.
> > > >
> > > > However, Cygwin is used (via the MSYS2 runtime) in Git for Windows, and by
> > > > extension millions of users rely on it.
> > > >
> > > > Therefore, it would be good to at least publish those local tests.
> > > > Ideally, a good deal of thought should be spent on figuring out a way to
> > > > integrate the tests into the CI builds.
> > > >
> > > > You mentioned winsup/testsuite, and I do agree that it sounds more than
> > > > just tricky to integrate the tests there. Essentially, you would probably
> > > > end up reimplementing AutoHotKey's fundamental functionality: sending
> > > > keystrokes and inspecting the results.
> > > >
> > > > Now, to be sure, running AutoHotKey-based tests is a lot more finicky than
> > > > running winsup/testsuite. In the absence of any better idea, though, I
> > > > would take the confidence from having tests over not having tests, any
> > > > day. After all, you and I are both fully aware of the unfortunate pattern
> > > > in the code under discussion where on multiple occasions, bug fixes
> > > > introduced new bugs whose fixes introduced yet other bugs, etc ad nauseam.
> > > > If AutoHotKey-based tests can help break that pattern, let's integrate
> > > > them.
> > >
> > >
> > > Who will port AHK to Cygwin tools to make it available as a package?
> >
>


In the meantime, I managed (with the assistance of Claude Opus, without
which I could not have justified the time I would have needed to spend on
this) to get it to compile with mingw-w64's GCC:

https://github.com/msys2/MINGW-packages/tree/HEAD/mingw-w64-autohotkey

It is definitely not for the faint of heart: 21 patches on top of regular
AutoHotKey, some of them necessary specifically to compile using Clang.
And to be honest, my assembly is not good enough to have been able to
write those patches. It's just good enough to review them.

It's probably too much on top of upstream AutoHotKey to put into a Cygwin
package, right?

Ciao,
Johannes


