# Re: dup3/O_CLOEXEC/F_DUPFD_CLOEXEC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-01-14T09:40:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100114094027.GA3428@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100114094027.GA3428@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/21-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/01/14/09-40-00)

On Jan 13 16:49, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Jan 13, 2010 at 10:25:37PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > the below patch implements the Linux dup3/O_CLOEXEC/F_DUPFD_CLOEXEC
> > extension.  I hope I didn't miss anything important since it affects
> > quite a few fhandlers.  Fortunately most is mechanical change, except
> > for a few places (dtable.cc, pipe.cc, fhandeler_fifo.cc, syscalls.cc).
> > Nevertheless, I'd be glad if somebody could have a second look into
> > this.
> >
> > Eric, you asked for it in the first place, do you have a fine testcase
> > for this functionality?
>
>
> The number of times that you typed:
>
> ```
>   sa_buf = close_on_exec ()
>               ? sec_user_nih ((PSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES) char_sa_buf, cygheap->user.sid())
>               : sec_user ((PSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES) char_sa_buf, cygheap->user.sid());
>
> ```
>
> implies that this should be a macro or a function.


The combination with sec_none_nih/sec_none is used four times in
different fhandler files.  Yes, good idea, I'll create an inline
function in fhandler.h.

The above combination with sec_user_nih/sec_user is only used two times,
both in fhandler_fifo.cc.  What about an inline function in
fhandler_fifo.cc for this one?  I'll add that to the revised patch.

> Could the setting of close_on_exec be handled in the syscalls.cc open()
> so that it doesn't have to be done so many times?  You could have


Yesterday I was sure that it has to be set in the various open methods
since they could be called from elsewhere.  Today, after a nights sleep,
I'm not so sure anymore.  I don't see any call to fh->open outside of
open(2).  And calls to the open_fs() function are covered anyway.
I'll look into simplifying this.

> build_fh_name set the noexec flag so that close_on_exec() would still
> work in the fhandler_*::open functions.


I'm not sure I understand you correctly.  Do you mean build_fh_name
should already set the close_on_exec flag so that later fhandler_*::open
only have to call set_close_on_exec if a set_no_inheritance call is
required?  build_fh_name does not get a flag parameter so far.  That
would have to be added as default parameter.

For now I'll go the road to add the default close_on_exec setting to the
open(2) call.  It's easy to switch to build_fh_name from there.


Thanks for the review,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


