# Re: dup3/O_CLOEXEC/F_DUPFD_CLOEXEC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-01-14T16:27:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100114162652.GC9964@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100114162652.GC9964@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/21-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/01/14/16-27-00)

On Thu, Jan 14, 2010 at 10:40:27AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 13 16:49, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Wed, Jan 13, 2010 at 10:25:37PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi,
> > >
> > > the below patch implements the Linux dup3/O_CLOEXEC/F_DUPFD_CLOEXEC
> > > extension.  I hope I didn't miss anything important since it affects
> > > quite a few fhandlers.  Fortunately most is mechanical change, except
> > > for a few places (dtable.cc, pipe.cc, fhandeler_fifo.cc, syscalls.cc).
> > > Nevertheless, I'd be glad if somebody could have a second look into
> > > this.
> > >
> > > Eric, you asked for it in the first place, do you have a fine testcase
> > > for this functionality?
> >
> >
> > The number of times that you typed:
> >
> > ```
> >   sa_buf = close_on_exec ()
> >               ? sec_user_nih ((PSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES) char_sa_buf, cygheap->user.sid())
> >               : sec_user ((PSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES) char_sa_buf, cygheap->user.sid());
> >
> > ```
> >
> > implies that this should be a macro or a function.
>
>
> The combination with sec_none_nih/sec_none is used four times in
> different fhandler files.  Yes, good idea, I'll create an inline
> function in fhandler.h.
>
> The above combination with sec_user_nih/sec_user is only used two times,
> both in fhandler_fifo.cc.  What about an inline function in
> fhandler_fifo.cc for this one?  I'll add that to the revised patch.


Even though it's used in fhandler_fifo is it similar enough to the
other function that grouping them together might make things clearer?
Otherwise, nevermind.

> > Could the setting of close_on_exec be handled in the syscalls.cc open()
> > so that it doesn't have to be done so many times?  You could have
>
>
> Yesterday I was sure that it has to be set in the various open methods
> since they could be called from elsewhere.  Today, after a nights sleep,
> I'm not so sure anymore.  I don't see any call to fh->open outside of
> open(2).  And calls to the open_fs() function are covered anyway.
> I'll look into simplifying this.
>
> > build_fh_name set the noexec flag so that close_on_exec() would still
> > work in the fhandler_*::open functions.
>
>
> I'm not sure I understand you correctly.  Do you mean build_fh_name
> should already set the close_on_exec flag so that later fhandler_*::open
> only have to call set_close_on_exec if a set_no_inheritance call is
> required?


I was saying that build_fh_name could set the flag so that you could
query close_on_exec() rather than using "flags & O_CLOEXEC".  But I made
that suggestion too late in the night and I see now that the flags parameter
that I thought was being passed to build_fh_name is not that at all.  So:

> For now I'll go the road to add the default close_on_exec setting to the
> open(2) call.  It's easy to switch to build_fh_name from there.


I don't think we need to perturb build_fh_name.  It was just a sleep-addled
suggestion.

cgf


