# Re: dup3/O_CLOEXEC/F_DUPFD_CLOEXEC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-01-14T16:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100114164536.GG14511@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100114164536.GG14511@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/21-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/01/14/16-45-00)

On Jan 14 11:26, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Thu, Jan 14, 2010 at 10:40:27AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > The combination with sec_none_nih/sec_none is used four times in
> > different fhandler files.  Yes, good idea, I'll create an inline
> > function in fhandler.h.
> >
> > The above combination with sec_user_nih/sec_user is only used two times,
> > both in fhandler_fifo.cc.  What about an inline function in
> > fhandler_fifo.cc for this one?  I'll add that to the revised patch.
>
>
> Even though it's used in fhandler_fifo is it similar enough to the
> other function that grouping them together might make things clearer?
> Otherwise, nevermind.


In my revised patch it's in fhandler_fifo.cc, called sec_user_cloexec.
First I was planning to make a similar sec_none_cloexec function in
fhandler.h, but it didn't make it for two reasons:

- It should be rather in security.h, where sec_none and sec_none_nih
  are declared as well.

- If it's inline in security.h, it breaks the build since O_CLOEXEC
  isn't always known in files which include security.h.

Therefore it's a macro in security.h now.  The sec_user_cloexec
doesn't get an `int flags' but a bool due to the way it gets called
in fhandler_fifo::wait.

To unify this, I could make sec_user_cloexec a macro in security.h as
well, and change the flags parameter to a bool parameter in the
sec_none_cloexec macro, like this:

```
  #define sec_none_cloexec(f) (((f) ? &sec_none_nih : &sec_none))
  #define sec_user_cloexec(f,sa,sid) (((f) ? sec_user_nih ((sa),(sid))
					   : sec_user ((sa),(sid))))

```

If you prefer that, I have no problem whatsoever to change it that way.

> > For now I'll go the road to add the default close_on_exec setting to the
> > open(2) call.  It's easy to switch to build_fh_name from there.
>
>
> I don't think we need to perturb build_fh_name.  It was just a sleep-addled
> suggestion.


No worries.  Parts of my patch suffered from the same problem ;)


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


