# Re: ntsec patch #4: passwd and group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-15T06:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DD50A44.40CF5707@ieee.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DD50A44.40CF5707@ieee.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/15/06-52-00)

Corinna,

Here is the ntsec patch #4 diff. As discussed before, the main motivation
was to handle more robustly incomplete passwd and group files.
In the process I fixed some bugs in related code and added
getpwsid and getgrsid.

This does not try to completely address the issue of invalid pointers
after a re-read of passwd and group, that will be for later.

Note that there is a small bug fix in the getgroup32 code from
yesterday and some streamlining in is_grp_member.

Pierre

2002/11/15  Pierre Humblet  <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

        * security.h: Declare getpwsid and getgrsid. Undeclare 
        internal_getpwent. Define DEFAULT_UID_NT. Change DEFAULT_GID.
        * passwd.cc (getpwsid): Create.
        (internal_getpwent): Suppress.
        (read_etc_passwd): Make static. Rewrite the code for the completion
        line. Reset curr_lines.
        (parse_pwd): Change type to static int. Return 0 for short lines.
        (add_pwd_line): Pay attention to the value of parse_pwd.     
        (search_for): Do not look for nor return the DEFAULT_UID.
        * grp.cc (read_etc_group): Make static. Free gr_mem and reset 
        curr_lines. Always call add_pwd_line. Rewrite the code for the 
        completion line.
        (parse_grp): If grp.gr_mem is empty, set it to &null_ptr.
        Never NULL gr_passwd. 
        (getgrgid32): Only return the default if ntsec is off and the gid is 
        ILLEGAL_GID.
        (getgroups32): Never close the impersonation token handle.           
        * sec_helper.cc (cygsid::get_id): Use getpwsid and getgrsid;
        (cygsid_getfrompw): Clean up last line.
        (cygsid_getfromgr): Ditto.
        (is_grp_member): Use getpwuid32 and getgrgid32.
        * uinfo.cc (internal_getlogin): Set DEFAULT_GID at start.
        Use getpwsid. Move the read of /etc/group after the second access 
        of /etc/passwd. Change some debug_printf.


---

**Attachments:**

- [pwd.diff](pwd.diff) (text)
