# Re: ntsec patch 1: uid==gid, chmod, alloc_sd, is_grp_member

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-15T09:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021115180630.A31146@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021115180630.A31146@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/11-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/15/09-06-00)

On Fri, Nov 15, 2002 at 10:24:36AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >   chgrp 544 or 513 /var/empty
> >
> > but that only works for default /etc/group files.
>
>
> 544 is still the best solution, IMHO. Let's take the long term view.


Yep.  But as far as I'm concerned we should drop that part of your
patch until I could update ssh.

> It's not a group_deny, it's an owner deny (which would go on top, so canonical
> order is OK here).


Oops, thick fingers...

> Also if the owner is not in the group when alloc_sd is called, and is placed
> in the group later, then the owner access mode of the file would change, which 
> isn't POSIX.
> Let's look at it from another angle: what is gained by going through the trouble
> of calling is_grp_member and possibly omitting the owner_deny?


Since is_grp_member() isn't that slow anymore, what does it hurt to
get the situation right in the first place?  I'm somehow more and more
convinced that this is just a matter of taste.

> The non canonical order is produced when the group has less permission 
> than everyone, which I agree is unlikely. 


Yeah, my mind was on another issue.  Time for weekend.

> It's 100% OK with me to give preference to being nice!


Ok.  I'm really sorry that I'm making your live that hard but I assume
you know that I'm just trying to find something as a best solution (if
that's at all possible).

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


