# Re: ntsec patch 1: uid==gid, chmod, alloc_sd, is_grp_member

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-11-15T09:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DD52F08.44B62AAE@ieee.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DD52F08.44B62AAE@ieee.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/11-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/15/09-29-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> Yep.  But as far as I'm concerned we should drop that part of your
> patch until I could update ssh.


What about putting it in with #if 0 ?
It will then be easier to turn it on when ssh is ready.

Alternatively I could add it, but add a check for group 
sid is SYSTEM, and then skip the step. That would be very easy
to do, and to remove later when ssh is ready.
I like this best actually.

> > It's not a group_deny, it's an owner deny (which would go on top, so canonical
> > order is OK here).
>
>
> Oops, thick fingers...
>
> > Also if the owner is not in the group when alloc_sd is called, and is placed
> > in the group later, then the owner access mode of the file would change, which
> > isn't POSIX.
> > Let's look at it from another angle: what is gained by going through the trouble
> > of calling is_grp_member and possibly omitting the owner_deny?
>
>
> Since is_grp_member() isn't that slow anymore, what does it hurt to
> get the situation right in the first place?  I'm somehow more and more
> convinced that this is just a matter of taste.


As far as I can see there is absolutely no advantage to calling  
is_grp_member() in alloc_sd() and by potentially omitting the owner_deny
we are making the situation worse! So here I am insistent!

> > The non canonical order is produced when the group has less permission
> > than everyone, which I agree is unlikely.
>
>
> Yeah, my mind was on another issue.  Time for weekend.
>
> > It's 100% OK with me to give preference to being nice!
>
>
> Ok.  I'm really sorry that I'm making your live that hard but I assume
> you know that I'm just trying to find something as a best solution (if
> that's at all possible).


Sure, and it's reciprocal.

By the way could you ask your friend if large organizations really
use deny ACEs? Are there tools that insert them in ACLs? 

Have a relaxing weekend!

Pierre


