# [patch] update documentation Was: cygwin-host-setup does not install sshd

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin@cygwin.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-18T03:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [428AB86F.75BC27A0@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/428AB86F.75BC27A0@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/18/03-37-00)

admin wrote:
>
> Thanks so much that worked like a charm.
>
> > "umount -A" to remove all mounts, and then delete the cygwin install
> > directory.  Rummaging around in the registry is not recommended.
> >
>
>
> http://www.cygwin.com/faq/faq_2.html#SEC20 <---  when removing the two registry values suggested there didnt work, i just removed anything, like i do when we get malware :).  I figured that would get it.
>
> > It sounds like you still have a sshd service installed that is
> > referencing a nonexistent path.  Type "cygrunsrv -Q sshd" to see if
> > there is such a service, and if so "cygrunsrv -R ssh" and then rerun
> > ssh-host-config.
> >
>
> i did, and it was, and that worked.  Some values in the registry "could not be deleted"  i didnt really pay attention to which, i guess one was the running ssh server.


I have to admit, the documentation could be a little more clear about
the fact that you need to remove services.  I've also often read that
people encounter problems when trying to delete the Cygwin tree because
they encounter files with permissions that don't allow the file to be
deleted (e.g. files created by SYSTEM.)

I therefore propose the following rewrite of the "How do I uninstall all
of Cygwin" entry in the FAQ.  This version is much more wordy, I admit. 
But since it seems to come up every so often I feel a little
hand-holding in the FAQ can't hurt.  Rather than saying basically to
delete the folder and the registry key and "you're on your own for the
other stuff", this gives a list of steps that should cover everything.

2005-05-17  Brian Dessent  <brian@dessent.net>

	* install.texinfo ("How do I uninstall..."): Rewrite to cover
	removing services, dealing with permissions, and other common
	tasks for removing Cygwin completely.


---

**Attachments:**

- [uninstall_cygwin_docpatch.patch](uninstall_cygwin_docpatch.patch) (text)
