# Re: gcc4 and local statics

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-developers@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-18T19:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050518194845.GD4502@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050518194845.GD4502@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/22-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/18/19-48-00)

On Wed, May 18, 2005 at 11:51:55AM -0700, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > While this might help to avoid... something, I'm seriously wondering
> > what's wrong with this expression.  Why does each new version of gcc
> > add new incompatibilities?
>
>
> I think I've figured this out.  PR/13684 added thread safety to
> initialization of local statics.[1]  It does this by wrapping the call
> to the contructor around __cxa_guard_acquire and __cxa_guard_release,
> which are supposed to prevent two threads from both calling the
> constructor at the same time.
>
> The problem is that in Cygwin, these functions are defined as no-ops in
> cxx.cc.  That means that GCC calls the function and expects a nonzero
> return value if it was able to acquire the mutex, but in our case the
> function always returns zero (or rather, it does nothing and eax
> contained zero before the function call) and so gcc never tries to call
> the constructor.
>
> There seem to be several possible ways to go here:
>
> 1. Compile with -fno-threadsafe-statics.
> 2. Implement an actual muto in __cxa_guard_*.
> 3. Remove Cygwin's no-op __cxa_guard_* and rely on the libstdc++
> provided ones.
> 4. Move the variable to file/global scope.
>
> This recently came up on an Apple list[2], apparently in the context of
> a vendor trying to compile their kernel driver against Tiger using
> gcc4.  It looks like they're going with either #4 or #1.
>
> I tested #1 and it indeed cures the failing mmap testsuites.
>
> For Cygwin's purposes it seems that we need to decide if two threads
> could ever potentially call this function at the same time.  If so, then
> #1 is out.  Correct me if I'm wrong but Cygwin does not use anything
> from libstdc++ so #3 is out as well.  In this particular case of
> 'granularity' it seems rather trivial to spend much time implementing
> actual locking.  But then you have to determine if there are any other
> local statics that will be suffering from the same fate, and if so then
> #2 starts to become reasonable, otherwise I'd say #4.


Now that we know what's causing this, I guess I'd have to say that 4.
is the way to go.  The expense of a mutex for this case doesn't seem
worth it.

cgf


