# Re: [PATCH] CYGWIN: Fix resolver debugging output

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-02-02T11:02:41-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [9f964f14-4e8e-b36f-fa73-777c567f2f3b@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/9f964f14-4e8e-b36f-fa73-777c567f2f3b@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/29/19-29-03.thread.md#:~:text=2021/02/02/18-02-41)

On 2021-02-01 12:02, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Feb  1 15:46, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > Except, the value has no meaning for ipv6.
> >
> >
> > It'll print all 0's :-)  But: minires does not make use of the _ext field.
> > It does use the conventional nsaddr_list (which is IPv4), but only if
> > Windows native DNS API is not used: "osquery"(aka use_os)=0. >>
> > For debugging purposes, that is enough and very convenient (yet the output 
> > needed some tune-up, which I suggested in my patch).
>
>
> Ok.
>
> > But for practical purposes, only Windows API should be used in regular 
> > applications (which is the default, anyways, since /etc/resolv.conf is not
> > routinely provided, so "osquery=1" implicitly).
>
> Yeah, I think so, too.  Ideally we should have stripped out all code
> providing non-Windows means (i. e., /etc/resolv.conf support) back when
> this code was folded into Cygwin.  It just doesn't make sense, at least
> not by default.


I've been generating /etc/resolv.conf -> /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf for years 
in an /etc/postinstall/0p_...dash script from ipconfig /all output (not aware of 
a Cygwin source to get this interface info) also run at startup, with some 
customizations, and not noticed any issues so far. Should I be wary in future?

> > I'm not sure if improvements to use _ext by the minires own code would be 
> > any beneficial.
> >
> > Having said that, AAAA replies should be made understood by the 
> > minires-if-os shim code (and I can provide a patch for that, too).
>
>
> That would be great!


-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


