# Re: [PATCH 0/8] Fix dumper for x86_64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2020-07-05T17:49:43+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b2a72bb3-1852-46fe-81d2-0107c0076564@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b2a72bb3-1852-46fe-81d2-0107c0076564@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/21-25-21.thread.md#:~:text=2020/07/05/16-49-43)

On 02/07/2020 08:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul  1 22:29, Jon Turney wrote:
> >
> > This needs to be aligned with some changes to gdb to consume the dumps it
> > produces, so it's probably best to hold off applying this until it's more
> > obvious what's going to happen with those.
> >
> > Random notes:
> >
> > - objdump identifies the output of dumper on x86_64 as
> > 'elf64-x86-64-cloudabi' (perhaps due to some over-eager sniffer).
> >
> > - regions excluded from the dump aren't rounded up to page size, so we may
> > end up writing the excess into the dump.
> >
> > - looking at the loaded modules and inspecting them to determine what memory
> > regions don't need to appear in the dump seems odd.  I'm not sure we don't
> > just exclude MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Type == MEM_IMAGE regions (assuming
> > they get converted to MEM_PRIVATE regions if written when copy-on-write).
>


Unfortunately, that doesn't happen, and the region appears to stay 
MEM_IMAGE, even if it's been modified.

I'm inclined to just dump MEM_IMAGE regions if they are writable 
(although using the current protection isn't 100% correct, because it 
may have been changed using VirtualProtect())

I suspect there's probably some undocumented MemoryInformationClass for 
NtQueryVirtualMemory() that would let us determine if a region is 
sharable or not, but ...

> Could format_process_maps() in fhandler_process.cc be a role model here?


Thanks for pointing that out.


