# Re: [PATCH] Hide sethostname() in unistd.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-19T08:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150619082048.GA2731@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150619082048.GA2731@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/16-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/19/08-20-00)

On Jun 19 07:27, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 17 15:15, Eric Blake wrote:
> > > On 06/17/2015 02:57 PM, Yaakov Selkowitz wrote:
> > > > On Wed, 2015-06-17 at 22:25 +0200, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > > Busybox does not use autoconf or similar. It requires manual platform
> > > > > specific configuration which does not yet support a missing
> > > > > sethostname(). After adding HAVE_SETHOSTNAME manually and some other
> > > > > minor additions, busybox (which many commands enabled) compiles and
> > > > > works reasonably.
> > > > > Would ITP make sense ?
> > > >
> > > > TBH I'm not sure.  Presuming you're discussing the single-executable
> > > > build (so as not to clobber coreutils etc.), there is still the question
> > > > of (not) matching the heavily-patched coreutils wrt .exe handling etc.
> > > > What do you think the use case would be?
> > >
> > > Portability testing is one thing - I often compare how
> > > bash/dash/zsh/mksh handle a shell construct, and adding busybox sh into
> > > the mix adds another perspective.  But yeah, I don't see busybox
> > > becoming the default source of these apps, so much as an alternative
> > > implementation.
> >
> > If it's called "busybox" and the package doesn't try to create shortcuts
> > /bin/sh -> /bin/busybox, etc, I don't see a problem to ITP it.
>
>
> Symlinks in standard places should not be created, of course.
> The shell and other commands could still be started by: busybox COMMAND ..."
>
> > If those symlinks are required for busybox to work, they should be
> > encapsulated in their own subdir, something like /usr/libexec/busybox
> > or so.  Users just need to set $PATH correctly then.  Or maybe that
> > could be done by busybox as well.
>
> Yes: busybox --install -s /some/where
>
> Busybox may occasionally be useful because it provides lightweight versions
> of various commands (including daemons) not part of the Cygwin base
> installation and a few commands not available in any package.
>
> It could also be used to build a minimalistic Cygwin (busybox.exe,
> mintty.exe, cygwin1.dll). If build with standalone option enabled, symlinks
> are not needed then.


Neat.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
