# Re: errno.h: ESTRPIPE

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-03-13T21:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090313205949.GE9322@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090313205949.GE9322@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/05-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/03/13/21-00-00)

On Mar 13 10:50, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Mar 13, 2009 at 06:10:48AM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > This is very Linux device specific and this never occurs on Cygwin.
> > > What about just defining this error code to some arbitrary value like
> > > ```
> > >   #ifdef __CYGWIN__
> > >   #define ESTRPIPE 9999
> > >   #endif
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > I like it.  If there are any other errno constants supported by Linux but 
> > not Cygwin, you could also define them with the same value.  It would 
> > effectively be the "this never happens" value.
>
>
> I'm not sure that you got this but I think Corinna was suggesting that
> this should be defined in the code in question rather than in Cygwin
> itself.


Right.

> I don't have a problem defining unique errnos that currently never
> happen if it makes Cygwin more compatible with Linux.  I just think that
> the value should be marked as
>
> /* Linux compatibility: this currently can never happen */


Hmm, this doesn't make much sense in the newlib errno.h.  We already
have a couple of errnos which are not generated by Cygwin without such
a comment.

> Yaakov's intent was to reduce the amount of special casing required when
> porting to Cygwin to remove the need to do #ifdef __CYGWIN__'s.  I think
> he knows that he could have ifdef'ed this since I suspect that he's had
> to do that many times in the past.
>
> Defining a unique value means that, if we do decide at some point to add
> functionality which utilizes that errno the will be no need to recompile
> the application.


That's quite a good argument.  If you both think it's a good idea to
define this new errno, I'm fine with it, too.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


