# Re: errno.h: ESTRPIPE

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-03-13T21:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090313214754.GB12746@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090313214754.GB12746@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/05-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/03/13/21-48-00)

On Fri, Mar 13, 2009 at 09:59:49PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 13 10:50, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Fri, Mar 13, 2009 at 06:10:48AM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > This is very Linux device specific and this never occurs on Cygwin.
> > > > What about just defining this error code to some arbitrary value like
> > > > ```
> > > >   #ifdef __CYGWIN__
> > > >   #define ESTRPIPE 9999
> > > >   #endif
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > I like it.  If there are any other errno constants supported by Linux but 
> > > not Cygwin, you could also define them with the same value.  It would 
> > > effectively be the "this never happens" value.
> >
> >
> > I'm not sure that you got this but I think Corinna was suggesting that
> > this should be defined in the code in question rather than in Cygwin
> > itself.
>
>
> Right.
>
> > I don't have a problem defining unique errnos that currently never
> > happen if it makes Cygwin more compatible with Linux.  I just think that
> > the value should be marked as
> >
> > /* Linux compatibility: this currently can never happen */
>
>
> Hmm, this doesn't make much sense in the newlib errno.h.  We already
> have a couple of errnos which are not generated by Cygwin without such
> a comment.


I was just trying optimistically to avoid the mailing list email
wondering why the errno wasn't being generated.

> > Yaakov's intent was to reduce the amount of special casing required
> > when porting to Cygwin to remove the need to do #ifdef __CYGWIN__'s.  I
> > think he knows that he could have ifdef'ed this since I suspect that
> > he's had to do that many times in the past.
> >
> > Defining a unique value means that, if we do decide at some point to
> > add functionality which utilizes that errno there will be no need to
> > recompile the application.
>
>
> That's quite a good argument.  If you both think it's a good idea to
> define this new errno, I'm fine with it, too.


I was wondering if we should add a conditionalized "#include
<cygwin/errno.h>" to newlib's errno.h.  Then we could add things without
littering the file with #ifdef CYGWIN's.

cgf


