# Re: storing symlink in extended attribute (on ntfs)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-11T11:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010511142639.A26920@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010511142639.A26920@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/09-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/11/11-28-00)

On Thu, May 10, 2001 at 08:15:21PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Thursday, 10 May, 2001 egor duda deo@logos-m.ru wrote:
>
> ed>   i've modified cygwin slightly to store symlink value in shortcut's
> ed> extended attribute, and to try to get it from there. my (rough)
> ed> benchmarking shows 30%-50% speedup in symlink resolution code.
>
> [...]
>
> ed> the patch is only proof-of-concept. of course, if will be cleaned up
> ed> (work only on ntfs, better error checking, etc.) if we decide we need
> ed> such functionality in cygwin. 
>
> here's ready-to-go patch.
> 2001-05-10  Egor Duda  <deo@logos-m.ru>
>
>        * security.h (NTWriteEA): Change prototype.
>        * ntea.cc (NTReadEA): Don't check for global ntea setting, now
>        it's caller responsibility.
>        (NTWriteEA): Ditto.
>        * path.cc (symlink): If symlink is created on NTFS, store its
>        value in EA.
>        (symlink_info::check): Get symlink value from EA.
>        * path.h: Define SYMLINK_EA_NAME
>        * security.cc (get_file_attribute): Read attribute from EA only 
>        if 'ntea' is enabled.
>        (set_file_attribute): Ditto.


This looks ok.  I'm a little concerned about adding YA way to set symlinks,
though.

As a specific comment, I wonder if it would just make sense to store volume
information in the path_conv class to avoid going through the duplicate efforts
in symlink.

I'd also prefer that the stuff in symlink and symlink_info::check be put into
separate functions.

cgf


