# Re: [patch] setup.exe changes for Redownload/Reinstall Current version or Sources only - Part 2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-11T13:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010511160353.B26223@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010511160353.B26223@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/21-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/11/13-05-00)

On Fri, May 11, 2001 at 03:45:21PM -0400, Brian Keener wrote:
> DJ Delorie wrote:
> > I don't think the user should be limited to only one cygwin install
> > per machine.
>
>
> Valid point - now back to my original question about mount points - If I 
> can have multiple installs of cygwin and I change the root directory 
> should we be doing anything with the files that currently exist within 
> the original root directory and or that cygwin versions mount points - I 
> don't think so, because now we don't know if they are creating a new 
> install of cygwin or moving the old one.
>
> All we should do is look at the root directory and our mount points 
> during setup and if the root directory appears to contain a valid cygwin 
> install then we simply use the mount points for our install and if a 
> directory we need does not exist as a mount point or real directory we 
> create it.  If the root directory specified does not appear to contain a 
> valid cygwin install then we install as a new install and create the 
> mount points for that new install just like we normally would.


I have modified setup.exe to honor existing mount points.

If there are no mount points then setup.exe will use the same procedure
as previously.

There is no need to run a heuristic analysis on the root directory to
see if there is a "valid" installation there.  The user can install as
much or as little as they want.  They can have no root mount but a
/usr/lib mount.  In that case, we'll create a new root but install
/usr/lib files where the mount points.  We just honor whatever they are
using.

cgf


