# Re: More pipe problems (was Re: [Fwd: 1.5.11-1: sftp performance problem])

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-04T14:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041004143808.GG30976@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041004143808.GG30976@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/10/20-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/04/14-37-00)

On Mon, Oct 04, 2004 at 11:40:10AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sep 23 18:56, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Sep 23 12:28, Bob Byrnes wrote:
> > > OutboundQuota is just the size of the pipe.  How do we know that the
> > > cygwin ssh didn't really inherit a huge pipe from the win32-native
> > > unison?
> >
> >
> > We don't unless checking the the source code or the strace, I guess.
> >
> > > The real trouble here seems to be that WriteQuotaAvailable is so low,
> > > which (if that is to be believed) indicates the pipe has almost filled.
> > > This seems similar to the sftp problem, which I am still investigating;
> > > I haven't made much progress during the past week because I've been
> > > busy with other things at work, but I have learned a few new things
> > > and I'll try to send another report as soon as I can construct a
> > > coherent explanation.
> >
> >
> > Cool with me.  As I noted, I didn't care for debugging this issue so
> > far so I also might be off-track.  But at least my debugging pointed
> > out where something goes wrong so I hope it was useful nevertheless.
>
>
> Bob?  Any news on this?  If we don't have a solution soon we should at
> least disable the code and revert to the old behaviour in the meantime,
> shouldn't we?


That would be a shame but maybe we can keep the code in and just default to
Win 9x behavior for now?

cgf


