# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Make native clipboard layout same for 32- and 64-bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-10-23T16:32:43-04:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [0cdc8601-fd90-226a-d486-7204bbe604c6@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0cdc8601-fd90-226a-d486-7204bbe604c6@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/05-22-37.thread.md#:~:text=2021/10/23/20-32-43)

On 10/23/2021 1:35 AM, Mark Geisert wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Just to close this up prior to the 3.3.0 release...
> >
> > Given we never actually strived for 32<->64 bit interoperability, it's
> > hard to argue why this should be different for the clipboard stuff.
> >
> > Running 32 and 64 bit Cygwin versions in parallel doesn't actually make
> > much sense for most people anyway, unless they explicitely develop for
> > 32 and 64 bit systems under Cygwin.  From a productivity point of view
> > there's no good reason to run more than one arch.
> >
> > So I agree with Ken here.  It's probably not worth the trouble.
>
>
> Sorry, I've been sidetracked for a bit.  I can agree with Ken too.  The only 
> circumstance I could think of where multiple internal format support might be 
> useful (to non-developers) was some user hanging on to an older Cygwin because 
> it was needed to support something else (s/w or h/w) old and non-upgradeable. 
> Doesn't seem very likely at this point.
>
> I'll try to get the v2 patch out over this weekend.  Same end-result for same 
> environments as the v1 patch, but incorporating all the comments I received.


I think Corinna was saying that the whole idea of making the 32-bit and 64-bit 
clipboards interoperable is not worth the trouble.

> To that end, does Jon's suggestion of /usr/include/sys/cygwin.h seem like the 
> best location to define struct cygcb_t for use by both Cygwin and cygutils package?
> Thanks much,
>
> ..mark



