# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Make native clipboard layout same for 32- and 64-bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-10-23T14:53:35-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [13f8b939-8d01-4e98-6756-9ae83a681b4b@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/13f8b939-8d01-4e98-6756-9ae83a681b4b@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/05-22-37.thread.md#:~:text=2021/10/23/21-53-35)

Ken Brown wrote:
> On 10/23/2021 1:35 AM, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Just to close this up prior to the 3.3.0 release...
> > >
> > > Given we never actually strived for 32<->64 bit interoperability, it's
> > > hard to argue why this should be different for the clipboard stuff.
> > >
> > > Running 32 and 64 bit Cygwin versions in parallel doesn't actually make
> > > much sense for most people anyway, unless they explicitely develop for
> > > 32 and 64 bit systems under Cygwin.  From a productivity point of view
> > > there's no good reason to run more than one arch.
> > >
> > > So I agree with Ken here.  It's probably not worth the trouble.
> >
> >
> > Sorry, I've been sidetracked for a bit.  I can agree with Ken too.  The only 
> > circumstance I could think of where multiple internal format support might be 
> > useful (to non-developers) was some user hanging on to an older Cygwin because 
> > it was needed to support something else (s/w or h/w) old and non-upgradeable. 
> > Doesn't seem very likely at this point.
> >
> > I'll try to get the v2 patch out over this weekend.  Same end-result for same 
> > environments as the v1 patch, but incorporating all the comments I received.
>
>
> I think Corinna was saying that the whole idea of making the 32-bit and 64-bit 
> clipboards interoperable is not worth the trouble.


Oh, I didn't read it that way.  But that works for me too.  Color it dropped :-).
Thanks,

..mark


