# Re: include/sys/strace.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | egor duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Christopher Faylor <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-28T10:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [117546176069.20020128213346@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/117546176069.20020128213346@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/17-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/28/10-34-00)

Hi!

Monday, 28 January, 2002 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:

> > > > Chris, I'd actually kinda like to see this included, I can see it being
> > > > handy from time to time.
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't agree.  It seems to me that this is easy enough to do with gdb.
> > > I don't see any reason for it.
> >
> >
> > The use case I see is when gdb hangs/crashes or the entire cygwin DLL
> > hangs/crashes. In those instances, having a non-cygwin program that can
> > monitor debug output would be highly useful.
>


CF> However, your example doesn't make any sense to me.  I use the techniques
CF> in how-to-debug-cygwin.txt and I've never had any problems.  There should
CF> never issue of a hanging cygwin if you use these techniques.

Ditto. Actually, strace is fully functional substitute for DbgView
here. I know only of one more feature that may be useful: We may want
to add one more type of *_printf, say private_printf, that is never
used in main source tree. If someone has pinpointed the bug but
suffers from "bug disappears under strace" problem, s/he just adds
that private_printf()s to the code in question and sets strace mask to 
catch only those "private" debug messages. That is, one can guarantee
that strace won't be flooded with "ordinary" strace output. Does this
make sense? I used this technique some time ago and can produce a
patch if needed. 

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19


