# Re: include/sys/strace.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-28T11:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020128190330.GB5721@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020128190330.GB5721@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/17-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/28/11-03-00)

On Mon, Jan 28, 2002 at 09:33:46PM +0300, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Monday, 28 January, 2002 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> > > > > Chris, I'd actually kinda like to see this included, I can see it being
> > > > > handy from time to time.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I don't agree.  It seems to me that this is easy enough to do with gdb.
> > > > I don't see any reason for it.
> > >
> > >
> > > The use case I see is when gdb hangs/crashes or the entire cygwin DLL
> > > hangs/crashes. In those instances, having a non-cygwin program that can
> > > monitor debug output would be highly useful.
> >
>
>
> CF> However, your example doesn't make any sense to me.  I use the techniques
> CF> in how-to-debug-cygwin.txt and I've never had any problems.  There should
> CF> never issue of a hanging cygwin if you use these techniques.
>
> Ditto. Actually, strace is fully functional substitute for DbgView
> here. I know only of one more feature that may be useful: We may want
> to add one more type of *_printf, say private_printf, that is never
> used in main source tree. If someone has pinpointed the bug but
> suffers from "bug disappears under strace" problem, s/he just adds
> that private_printf()s to the code in question and sets strace mask to 
> catch only those "private" debug messages. That is, one can guarantee
> that strace won't be flooded with "ordinary" strace output. Does this
> make sense? I used this technique some time ago and can produce a
> patch if needed. 


I think this is what "minimal_printf" was supposed to accomplish but I
like the idea of a private_printf for this use.

We also need to resurrect the "attach to running process" capabilities
that you (Egor) submitted a patch for, IIRC.

I think I'll do that now.  I'm about to go into a boring meeting.

cgf


