# Internal get{pw,gr}XX calls

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-25T21:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20021126000911.00833190@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20021126000911.00833190@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](21-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/25/21-12-00)

Hello Corinna,

Here is the patch to define and use internal_get{pw,gr}XX.
Lots of small changes. Please check particularly the modification
in sec_acl.cc:acl_access.

I didn't remove the external call from glob.c. It's a C file,
so that would require a lot of work. Also it's only called during
initialization, thus it can't destroy areas used by external calls.

I made minor fixes in passwd.cc and grp.cc. 
parse_pwd now checks for incomplete entries but I didn't make
it very strict (it checks up to the pw_gid field) as I didn't want 
to break anything. Feel free to make it tougher.
A debug_printf might be nice in case of rejection, but there isn't
one in parse_grp (which is very strict) so I didn't put one here
either. It's your call.

I didn't touch anything that's thread related. That's an area still
requiring work.

Pierre

2002-11-25  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* security.h: Move declarations of internal_getgrent,
	internal_getpwsid and internal_getgrsid to pwdgrp.h.
	* pwdgrp.h: Declare internal_getpwsid, internal_getpwnam,
	internal_getpwuid, internal_getgrsid, internal_getgrgid, 
	internal_getgrnam, internal_getgrent and internal_getgroups. 
	Delete "emulated" from enum pwdgrp_state.
	(pwdgrp_check::isuninitialized): Create.
	(pwdgrp_check::pwdgrp_state): Change state to initializing
	rather than to uninitialized.
	(pwdgrp_read::gets): Remove trailing CRs.
	* passwd.cc (grab_string): Don't look for NLs.
	(grab_int): Ditto.
	(parse_pwd): Don't look for CRs. Return 0 if entry is too short.
	(search_for): Delete.
	(read_etc_passwd): Simplify tests to actually read the file.
	Set state to loaded before making internal_getpwXX calls.
	Replace search_for calls by equivalent internal_pwgetXX calls. 
	(internal_getpwsid): Use passwd_state.isuninitialized to decide
	to call read_etc_passwd.
	(internal_getpwuid): Create.
	(internal_getpwnam): Create.
	(getpwuid32): Simply call internal_getpwuid.
	(getpwuid_r32): Call internal_getpwuid.
	(getpwnam): Simply call internal_getpwnam.
	(getpwnam_r): Call internal_getpwnam.
	* grp.cc (parse_grp): Don't look for CRs. Adjust blank space.
	(add_grp_line): Adjust blank space.
	(class group_lock): Ditto.
	(read_etc_group): Simplify tests to actually read the file.
	Set state to loaded before making internal_getgrXX calls.
	Replace getgrXX calls by equivalent internal calls.
	(internal_getgrsid): Use group_state.isuninitialized to decide
	to call read_etc_group.
	(internal_getgrgid): Create.
	(internal_getgrnam): Create.
	(getgroups32): Simply call internal_getgrgid.
	(getgrnam32): Simply call internal_getgrnam.
	(internal_getgrent): Call group_state.isuninitialized.
	(internal_getgroups): Create from the former getgroups32, using
	two of the four arguments. Set gid to myself->gid and username
	to cygheap->user.name ().
	(getgroups32): Simply call internal_getgroup.
	(getgroups): Call internal_getgroup instead of getgroups32.
	(setgroups32): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	* sec_helper.cc: Include pwdgrp.h.
	(is_grp_member): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	* security.cc: Include pwdgrp.h.
	(alloc_sd): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	* syscalls.cc: Include pwdgrp.h.
	(seteuid32): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	(setegid32): Ditto.
	* uinfo.cc: Include pwdgrp.h.
	(internal_getlogin): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	(cygheap_user::ontherange): Ditto.
	* sec_acl.cc: Include pwdgrp.h.
	(setacl): Call internal versions of get{pw,gr}XX.
	(acl_access): Ditto and simplify logic.
	(aclfromtext): Ditto.


---

**Attachments:**

- [intern.diff](intern.diff) (text)
