# Re: Website Suggestions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | John Haugabook <johnhaugabook@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-06-06T16:50:51-04:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [CAKrZaUuNGaC=kzDb-nRZmk3r4vm-3GM8W+AbbOgaWvoihQR7gw@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAKrZaUuNGaC=kzDb-nRZmk3r4vm-3GM8W+AbbOgaWvoihQR7gw@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-50-37.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/06/20-50-51)

On Fri, Jun 6, 2025 at 1:06 PM Brian Inglis
<Brian.Inglis@systematicsw.ab.ca> wrote:
>
> On 2025-06-05 19:50, John Haugabook wrote:
> > I made a few small edits to the website, and included the patch as an
> > attachment. Below are the changes:
> >   - Changed links to template elements to absolute, using "/" before the page.
> >   - Included template elements in nested pages.
> >   - Made an edit to "Install.html".
> >   - In style.css edited elements for better UX, and edited comment
> > markers for consistency, ending at col 78 for comments marking style
> > section.
> >
> > I wasn’t sure where website suggestions should be sent — this list
> > seemed most appropriate, given its name. If there’s a better place or
> > process to submit patches like this, please feel free to redirect me.
>
> Rather than the *generated* HTML you sent many of your patches against, you will
> have to redo many of your changes against the applicable source repos below,
> build Cygwin and docs to check the appropriate contents are generated and
> appear, then format and send the patches from the commits against each of the
> source repos, either as separate individual patches, or a series of *related*
> patches against each repo.
>
> Send git-format-patch output against current:
>
>         https://cygwin.com/git/cygwin-htdocs.git
>
> sources using git-send-email so they can be reviewed and applied with git-am.
>
> Most other website and doc package contents are generated from DocBook XML:
>
>         https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=winsup/doc;a=tree
>
> sources in the above repo: note all the includes of other, sometimes generated,
> XML files, most of which are generated from embedded API comments in function
> sources:
>
> ```
>         https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=winsup/cygwin;a=tree
>
>         https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=newlib/libc;a=tree
>
>         https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=newlib/libm;a=tree
>
> ```
>
> in DocBook XML and other doc formats, and which should be sent using the same
> process; except all Newlib changes should be sent to the newlib sourceware
> mailing list rather than the cygwin patches mailing list.
>
> > Totally understand if the changes are rejected or revised. Thank you
> > for maintaining the project and reviewing contributions.
>
> To generate the API info and man pages, you can change into the newlib directory
> and:
> ```
>         $ make info man
>
>         $ make install-info install-man
>
> ```
>
> I have no idea what the process is to deploy the generated HTML files into the
> cygwin-htdocs tree, unless it may just be the presence of a parallel repo during
> the build, and/or scripts run from one or the other, or the infrastructure.
>
> It would be useful if we could be pointed to docs on how to reproduce the web
> site locally.
>
> --
> Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada
>
> La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
> non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
> mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
>                                  -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


Thanks for getting back to me. I might not be able to work on this for
the next week, but in response.

> I have no idea what the process is to deploy the generated HTML files into the
> cygwin-htdocs tree


I'm not able to find anything on that either. It doesn't seem like I
can do much without simulating the generated HTML. Is it built from a
cronjob, then uploaded to the site?

If so, then adding:

```
</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/style.css" />
and
<body><!--#include virtual="/navbar.html" --><div
id="main"><!--#include virtual="/top.html" -->
```

to the file that generates the html should work - right?

> To generate the API info and man pages, you can change into the newlib directory
> and:
> ```
>        $ make info man
>
>        $ make install-info install-man
> ```
>


Didn't work for me. I can use the xml from:

 https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;f=winsup/doc;a=tree

and do a makeshift build, but doing that doesn't really do any good
unless I can generate the html as it is done from however newlib
generates the html page from xml.


