# Re: [PATCH] winsup/cygwin/libc/strptime.cc(__strptime) add strptime %s

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-08-29T19:14:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170825094122.GM7469@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170825094122.GM7469@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/24/04-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/08/29/19-14-00)

On Aug 24 14:00, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2017-08-24 03:25, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 23 12:51, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > Attached patch to support %s in Cygwin winsup libc strptime.cc __strptime().
> > > This also enables support for %s in dateutils package strptime(1).
> > > In case the issue comes up, if the user wants to support %s as in date(1) with a
> > > preceding @ flag, they just have to include that verbatim before the format as
> > > in "@%s".
> > > Testing revealed a separate issue with %F format which I will follow up on in a
> > > different thread.
> > > Similar patch coming for newlib.
> >
> > Funny enough, in other places in Cygwin we call this temp variable
> > "save_errno" :)
> > Alternatively, since you're in C++ code, you can use the save_errno
> > class, like this:
> > ```
> >   {
> >     save_errno save;
> >
> >     [do your thing]
> >   }
> > ```
> >
> > The destructor of save_errno will restore errno.
> > Since the code as such is fine, it's your choice if you want to stick
> > to it or use one of the above.  Just give the word.
>
>
> Changed to use that.
>
> -- 
> Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada
>
>
> From 16855e2e241673e5cb98368a696114e38f62a4dc Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> From: Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca>
> Date: Thu, 24 Aug 2017 13:24:28 -0600
> Subject: [PATCH] winsup/cygwin/libc/strptime.cc(__strptime) add %s support to
>  strptime
>
> ---
> ```
>  winsup/cygwin/libc/strptime.cc | 20 ++++++++++++++++++++
>  1 file changed, 20 insertions(+)
> ```
>


Pushed.


Thanks,
Corinna


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
