# Re: [PATCH] Add an additional relocation attempt pass to load_after_fork()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-04-06T13:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110406135744.GA4912@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110406135744.GA4912@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/13/15-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/04/06/13-57-00)

On Wed, Apr 06, 2011 at 12:54:42PM +0100, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 05/04/2011 17:21, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Apr 05, 2011 at 05:03:43PM +0100, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > On 04/04/2011 15:39, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > I'm trying to imagine a scenario where it would screw up to just do the
> > reserve_upto + "reserve the low block" and I can't think of one.  It's
> > potentially a little more work, of course, but I think it may catch the
> > more common failing conditions so it shouldn't be too noticeable.
> >
> > > > If so, it seems like we're allocating and freeing the space up to the DLL more
> > > > than once.  I think we could avoid doing that.
> > >
> > >
> > > For performance reasons, I think you are right.  Or do you mean there is a
> > > correctness issue with that?
> > >
> > > If you indicate your preferences I'll respin the patch.
> > >
> > > 1) Combine passes 2 and 3
> >
> >
> > I'd prefer this.  If we can get people test the snapshot maybe we an
> > figure out if a separate loop is useful.
>
>
> Updated patch attached.
>
> 2011-04-06  Jon TURNEY  <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk>
>
> 	* dll_init.cc (reserve_at, release_at): New functions.
> 	(load_after_fork): If the DLL was loaded higher than the required
> 	address, assume that it loaded at it's base address and also reserve
> 	memory there to force it to be relocated.


This looks good except for formatting nits involving spaces before/after
parentheses.  I've checked it in with those very minor changes.

Thanks very much for this patch.

cgf


