# RE: BLODA FAQ entry.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn@artimi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-01-02T23:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [003401c84d94$9b5f1ee0$2e08a8c0@CAM.ARTIMI.COM](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/003401c84d94$9b5f1ee0$2e08a8c0@CAM.ARTIMI.COM) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2007/12/29/17-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/01/02/23-11-00)

On 02 January 2008 19:58, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Wed, Jan 02, 2008 at 07:46:16PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> > On 02 January 2008 19:08, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > On Wed, Jan 02, 2008 at 06:59:03PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> > > > On 29 December 2007 18:06, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > On Sat, Dec 29, 2007 at 05:43:09PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> > > > > >
> > > > > >  The long-promised FAQ entry.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > winsup/doc/ChangeLog
> > > > > >
> > > > > > 2007-29-12  Dave Korn
> > > > > >
> > > > > > 	* faq-using.xml (faq.using.bloda):  New entry.
> > > > > > 	(faq.using.firewall, faq.using.anti-virus):  Link to faq.using.bloda.
> > > > > > 	* faq-setup.xml (faq.setup.hang):  Likewise link to faq.using.bloda.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Looks good.  Thanks for doing this.  Please check in.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >  Hmm, I thought the website might update itself automagically when the
> > > > sources are changed, but I guess not.  How do we get the online version
> > > > of the FAQ to rebuild?
> > >
> > >
> > > It isn't automatic.  I usually wait for "someone" with dessent skills in
> > > creating the pages and transferring them to the right location to do this.
> >
> >
> >  Ah.  Who, to judge from lack of posting, is still away on xmas/newyear
> > break of some description.  (I could /probably/ update just the two
> > related pages with copies freshly built from source, but I'd rather
> > someone who's done it regularly before and knows of any hidden gotcha's
> > did it, or at least said if it's really that simple before I went and
> > borked anything.)  Guess I'll just be patient.
>
>
> That's why I usually wait.  Every time I regen the pages, they end up
> looking strange.
>
> cgf


  You mean like that time when all the graphics changed to hippos?  Yeh, that
```
/was/ strange!

    cheers,
      DaveK
```

-- 
Can't think of a witty .sigline today....


