# RE: sem_getvalue patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@syncretize.net> |
| **To** | 'Robert Collins' <robert.collins@syncretize.net>, 'Robb, Sam' <sam.robb@timesys.com>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-08T06:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [007301c20ef4$5b659bf0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/007301c20ef4$5b659bf0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/08/06-56-00)

Ok, well I'll hold off for the assignment.

Rob

> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com 
> [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Robert Collins
> Sent: Saturday, 8 June 2002 2:44 AM
> To: 'Robb, Sam'; cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: RE: sem_getvalue patch
>
>
> Thanks, this looks good, I'll do a closer review in the weekend.
>
> Rob
>
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com 
> > [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Robb, Sam
> > Sent: Saturday, 8 June 2002 2:35 AM
> > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > Subject: RE: sem_getvalue patch
> >
> >
> > [original message was to cygwin@cygwin.com]
> >
> > > With a little effort, I've managed to build a cygwin1.dll 
> >
> > that exports
> > > sem_getvalue().  The version of cygwin1.dll that I built 
> >
> > seems subtly
> > > hosed, though - while I can compile and run my test program from
> > > within a Windows cmd.exe shell, trying to run bash or ls 
> >
> > (and probably
> > > a great many other things) hangs.
> >
> >
> > Here's the patch... fairly straightforward, if I've 
>
> understood the SUS
> > spec for the function correctly :-/
> >
> > As for the apparent hangs in bash/ls/etc. - well, perhaps it was my
> > patch, perhaps not, as I was building from latest cvs source.  Since
> > I can't find any documentation that indicates if a particular method
> > for adding an export to cygiwn.din needs to be followed, this patch
> > simply tacks sem_getvalue to the end of the list.
> >
> > Thanks,
> >
> > -Samrobb
> >
> > winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog entry:
> >
> > 2002-06-06  Sam Robb <sam.robb@timesys.com>
> >
> > 	* pthread.cc (sem_getvalue): New function.
> > 	* thread.cc (__sem_getvalue): Diito.
> > 	* thread.h (__sem_getvalue): Ditto.
> > 	* include/semaphore.h (sem_getvalue): Ditto.
> > 	* posix.sgml: Add sem_getvalue to "Synchronization" section.
> > 	* cygwin.din: Add symbol for sem_getvalue().
> >
> > winsup/doc/ChangeLog entry:
> >
> > 2002-06-06  Sam Robb <sam.robb@timesys.com>
> >
> > 	* calls.texinfo: Remove 'unimplemented' tag from sem_getvalue.
> >
>
>
>



