# Re: PING: fix ARG_MAX

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <ebb9@byu.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-09-13T04:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [43265113.3000207@byu.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/43265113.3000207@byu.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/15-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/09/13/04-10-00)

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

According to Corinna Vinschen on 9/12/2005 9:22 AM:
> > Even with your recent patches to make cygwin programs receive longer command
> > lines, whether or not they are not mounted cygexec, ARG_MAX should still reflect
> > the worst case limit so that programs (like xargs) that use ARG_MAX will work
> > reliably even when invoking non-cygwin programs that are really bound by the 32k
> > limit.
>
>
>
> I had a short talk with Chris and we both agree that it doesn't make
> overly sense to go down to the lowest limit just to accomodate
> non-Cygwin applications.  Users of those apps can easily use xargs -s
> so why penalize Cygwin apps?


Well, for now, xargs in findutils-4.2.25-2 is already hardcoded to 32k
max; attempting to use -s to get a larger value will fail, because of the
POSIX rules placed on xargs.  If, on the other hand, cygwin added
pathconf(_PC_ARG_MAX) as a legal extension to POSIX, then xargs could use
its preferred 128k default when calling cygwin apps, while using 32k for
windows apps without even requiring users to supply -s; not to mention the
fact that -s could then be used to obtain larger command lines than even
the default 128k for cygwin apps.  With that extension in place,
sysconf(_SC_ARG_MAX) at 32k is not much of a limit for applications that
know about cygwin's extension.

Also, the argument brought up on the findutils mailing list was that
beyond a certain size, the cost of processing each argument starts to
outweigh the benefits of forking fewer tasks, to the point that the
difference between a 32k ARG_MAX vs. a 1M ARG_MAX falls in the noise when
the same amount of data is divided by xargs to as few runs as possible, so
a 32k limit is not really penalizing cygwin apps.

But since I have not provided a patch for pathconf(_PC_ARG_MAX), and I do
not have copyright assignment, I will be understanding if 1.5.19 is
released with _SC_ARG_MAX still broken in the corner cases.  Just be aware
that xargs will remain at its hardcoded 32k limit unless it can find a way
to query cygwin whether a particular executable can be given a larger limit.

- --
Life is short - so eat dessert first!

Eric Blake             ebb9@byu.net
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.1 (Cygwin)
Comment: Public key at home.comcast.net/~ericblake/eblake.gpg
Comment: Using GnuPG with Thunderbird - http://enigmail.mozdev.org

iD8DBQFDJlES84KuGfSFAYARAu75AJ4r3Zd2U/eFTMzod39mpNn0M8aQigCgySob
xk7QutMPTnN3wh/zUMnSMHM=
=sw7M
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


