# Re: [PATCH] interruptable accept

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Pfaff <tpfaff@gmx.net> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-07-01T05:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.WNT.4.44.0207011343160.364-100000@algeria.intern.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.WNT.4.44.0207011343160.364-100000@algeria.intern.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/01/05-00-00)



On Mon, 1 Jul 2002, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Mon, Jul 01, 2002 at 01:12:24PM +0200, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
> >
> > This patch is not 100% perfect and could be done better (faster response
> > on incoming signal) with async Events but this would require a much larger
> > patch (Call AsyncEventSelect, WaitForMultipleObjects (socket and signal),
> > check for pending connection and set socket back to blocking mode).
>
>
> Do you mean WSAEventSelect?  Would that be actually that big a patch?
> I'm not quite sure if a busy loop is a better solution.


To be corect:
1. Call WSAEventSelect.
2. WSAWaitForMultipleObjects for socket and signal_arrived.
3. If signal arrived set EINTR, WSAEnumNetworkEvents otherwise.
4. do accept, then switch sockets back to nonblocking

I will generate a new patch tonight, then you can decide which one to use.
The select one was easier one to implement because you don't have to
deal with nonblocking I/O and multiple events.

>
> > 2002-07-01 Thomas Pfaff <tpfaff@gmx.net>
>

		throw runtime_error( EXCPTN_S( FormatSockErr(
"WSAEventSelect", NULL ) ) );> >
	}> > *net.cc: Include select.h
> > ```
> > 	(cygwin_accept): If socket is nonblocking check for a pending
> > 	signal every 100ms.
> > ```
> >
>
>
> Ahem, did you have a look into the current CVS sources?  Your patch
> isn't against the latest from CVS.  I've moved most of the socket
> funtionality into the fhandler_socket class the week before.
>


Seems that i am a little out of date ...

Thomas


