# Re: Patch to pass file descriptors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-01T15:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [06d801c2214d$f155ddd0$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/06d801c2214d$f155ddd0$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/01/15-21-00)

"David Euresti" <davie@MIT.EDU> wrote:
>         There's the option of keeping full BSD semantics if the

cygserver
> is running.  I like that.  I can require users to run the cygserver.

I
> don't mind. [snip]
>         The question is, can you incorporate my code and then you

guys
> deal with the case when the cygserver isn't running? [snip]
>         I'm sure other people will want full BSD semantics also so

why not
> allow them to have it if the cygserver is running.


This seems to be the "standard" approach for this sort of issue (if
one example suffices to set a standard): the fhandler_tty code uses
cygserver to dup handles if available, otherwise falls back to doing
it locally; see the fhandler_tty_slave::open method in
"fhandler_tty.cc". So I don't see a problem with that.

>         Unfortunately the whole net.cc has been refactored so I'll

have to
> regenerate my patch.


Unless anyone has any objection, if you send this to the list, I'll
put it into the cygwin_daemon branch. It's not a complete or final
solution (as you've noted), and perhaps you ought to follow the
example, from the fhandler_tty.cc code, of putting some conditions
around calling cygserver, leaving a blank spot to be filled in with
the non-cygserver code. When/if such non-cygserver code appears on
HEAD I can merge it into the branch by slotting it into those blanks.

// Conrad




