# Re: [PATCH] Extended mouse coordinates

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Wolff <towo@towo.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-04-24T20:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4F970657.4010203@towo.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4F970657.4010203@towo.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/19-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/04/24/20-00-00)

Am 24.04.2012 21:47, schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> On Apr 24 21:45, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Apr 24 21:35, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > Am 24.04.2012 16:44, schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> > > > On Apr 22 21:07, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > > > This patch replaces my previous proposal
> > > > > (http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2012-q2/msg00005.html) with two
> > > > > modifications:
> > > > >
> > > > >   * Fixed a bug that suppressed mouse reporting at large coordinates (in
> > > > >     all modes actually:-\ )
> > > > >   * Added mouse mode 1005 (total of 3 three new modes, so all reporting
> > > > >     modes run by current terminal emulators would be implemented)
> > > > >
> > > > > I would appreciate the patch to be applied this time, planned to be
> > > > > my last mouse patch :)
> > > > >
> > > > > Kind regards,
> > > > > Thomas
> > > > > 2012-04-03  Thomas Wolff<towo@towo.net>
> > > > >
> > > > > 	* fhandler.h (class dev_console): Two flags for extended mouse modes.
> > > > > 	* fhandler_console.cc (fhandler_console::read): Implemented
> > > > > 	extended mouse modes 1015 (urxvt, mintty, xterm) and 1006 (xterm).
> > > > > 	Not implemented extended mouse mode 1005 (xterm, mintty).
> > > > > 	Supporting mouse coordinates greater than 222 (each axis).
> > > > > 	Also: two { wrap formatting consistency fixes.
> > > > > 	(fhandler_console::char_command) Initialization of enhanced
> > > > > 	mouse reporting modes.
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > > Patch applied with changes.  Please use __small_sprintf rather than
> > > > sprintf.  I also changed the CHangeLog entry slightly.  Keep it short
> > > > and in present tense.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Thanks,
> > > > Corinna
> > > >
> > >
> > > Hmm, thanks but I'm afraid this went wrong. You quote (and probably
> > > applied) my first patch which is missing mouse mode 1005 and
> > > unfortunately also has a bug which effectively makes the extended
> > > coordinates unusable (because the reports are suppressed in that
> > > case as they were before :( ).
> > > The mail you responded to contained an updated patch.
> >
> > That was exactly the patch I applied.  I only chnaged the formatting
> > and changed sprintf to  __small_sprintf.
>
> ...and as far as quoting goes, the above is the ChangeLog you provided
> with your updated patch.

Sh.. I see. My deep apologies, I must have been confused. Here is the 
actual updated patch which should be used instead.
Sorry for the trouble.
Thomas


---

**Attachments:**

- [mouse-modes-5-6-16.changelog](mouse-modes-5-6-16.changelog) (text)
- [mouse-modes-5-6-16.patch](mouse-modes-5-6-16.patch) (text)
