# Re: fix off-by-one in dup2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-12-04T19:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20131204194441.GB16301@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20131204194441.GB16301@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/23-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/12/04/19-44-00)

On Dec  4 12:51, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Dec 04, 2013 at 06:23:24PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec  4 12:00, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Wed, Dec 04, 2013 at 01:04:08PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Dec  4 12:36, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Dec  4 10:32, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > Hi guys,
> > > > > > [...etc...]
> > > > > > The problem is still present in the current sources.
> > > > > > [...]
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Ouch, ouch, ouch!  I tested the wrong DLL.  Actually current CVS fixes
> > > > this problem.  Duh.  Sorry for the confusion.
> > > >
> > > > One question, though.  Assuming start is == size, then the current code
> > > > in CVS extends the fd table by only 1.  If that happens often, the
> > > > current code would have to call ccalloc/memcpy/cfree a lot.  Wouldn't
> > > > it in fact be better to extend always by at least NOFILE_INCR, and to
> > > > extend by (1 + start - size) only if start is > size + NOFILE_INCR?
> > > > Something like
> > > >
> > > >  size_t extendby = (start >= size + NOFILE_INCR) ? 1 + start - size : NOFILE_INCR;
> > > >
> > > > ?
> > > >
> > > > Sorry again.  Fortunately it's my WJM week...
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think it is a common occurrence for start >= size.  It is
> > > usually done when something like bash dup2's stdin/stdout/stderr to a
> > > high fd.  Howeer, I'll check in something which guarantees that there is
> > > always a NOFILE_INCR entries free after start.
> >
> >
> > That might be helpful.  Tcsh, for instance, always dup's it's std
> > descriptors to the new fds 15-19.  If it does so in this order, it would
> > have to call extend 5 times.
>
>
> dtable.h:#define NOFILE_INCR    32
>
> It shouldn't extend in that scenario.  The table starts with 32
> elements.


Right.  I just thought it's a good example.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
