# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-20T17:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041120125458.00821b80@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041120125458.00821b80@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/20/17-59-00)

At 01:23 AM 11/20/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> Here's the good news/bad news.
>
> On Tue, Nov 16, 2004 at 10:56:40AM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > The simplification of the code from removing all of the reparenting
> > considerations is not something that I'm going to give up on easily.
>
>
> Well, the code seems to be slightly faster now than the old method,
> so that's something.  I think it's also a lot simpler.
>
> There are some ancillary benefits of this new approach.  I've fixed the
> old problem where if you run a process from a windows command prompt and
> that process execs another process and it execs another process, each
> process will wait around into the final process in the chain dies.
>
> I've also added an 'exitcode' field to _pinfo so that a Cygwin process
> will set the error code in a UNIX fashion based on whether it is exiting
> due to a signal or with a normal exit().  Unfortunately, this means that
> I don't know quite what to do with exit codes from Windows processes.
> This is the last remaining problem before I check things in.  This
> problem just occurred to me as I was typing in the ChangeLog and it may
> be the one reason why you actually need to do the reparenting tango.


For Windows process, why can't you keep doing what was done before
```
            case WAIT_OBJECT_0:
              sigproc_printf ("subprocess exited");
              DWORD exitcode;
              if (!GetExitCodeProcess (pi.hProcess, &exitcode))
                exitcode = 1;

```

and copy the Windows exit code to the exitcode field? Or did you remove the
subproc_ready as well?

Pierre


