# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-20T18:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041120184913.GA2765@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041120184913.GA2765@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/20/18-48-00)

On Sat, Nov 20, 2004 at 12:54:58PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 01:23 AM 11/20/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Nov 16, 2004 at 10:56:40AM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > I've also added an 'exitcode' field to _pinfo so that a Cygwin process
> > will set the error code in a UNIX fashion based on whether it is exiting
> > due to a signal or with a normal exit().  Unfortunately, this means that
> > I don't know quite what to do with exit codes from Windows processes.
> > This is the last remaining problem before I check things in.  This
> > problem just occurred to me as I was typing in the ChangeLog and it may
> > be the one reason why you actually need to do the reparenting tango.
>
>
> For Windows process, why can't you keep doing what was done before
> ```
>            case WAIT_OBJECT_0:
>              sigproc_printf ("subprocess exited");
>              DWORD exitcode;
>              if (!GetExitCodeProcess (pi.hProcess, &exitcode))
>                exitcode = 1;
>
> ```
>
> and copy the Windows exit code to the exitcode field? Or did you remove the
> subproc_ready as well?


Yes, all of the reparenting logic is gone, including "subproc_ready"; at
least as far as exec is concerned.  hProcess doesn't exist in _pinfo
anymore.

I got the functionality back by essentially implementing reparenting in
a different way, but, now that I've done this, it seems that I don't
need the pipe anymore, even though it does make communication between a
parent and child convenient.  So, I still have some cogitating to do.

That's ok.  Sleep is overrated.

cgf


