# Re: [Patch] debug_printf edits

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-20T19:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041120145103.00833bf0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041120145103.00833bf0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/20/19-56-00)

At 02:36 PM 11/20/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Nov 20, 2004 at 02:27:37PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 02:20 PM 11/20/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sat, Nov 20, 2004 at 01:51:16PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > Here are minor changes that facilitate grepping traces. 
> > > >
> > > > Pierre
> > > >
> > > > 2004-11-20  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > > >
> > > > 	* fhandler.cc (fhandler::write): Remove debug_printf.
> > > > 	* pipe.cc (fhandler_pipe::create): Edit syscall_printf format.
> > >
> > >
> > > What does the inclusion of the word "pipe" add for grepping traces?
> > > So, you can do a grep on '[0-9]+ = [a-z]'?
> >
> >
> > Most syscall_printf have the form "res = function (args)",
> > but the one in pipe.cc is missing "function". 
> > So the change facilitates grepping, in particular when looking
> > for many functions at once.
>
>
> It didn't make sense to me that you were removing this usage in the case
> of fhandler::write but tweaking it in the case of fhandler_pipe::create.


The debug_printf in fhandler::write is redundant because there is an 
equivalent syscall_printf in write() (and a simple grep catches both).
Note that there is no debug_printf in many other fhandler_xxx::write.

Alternatively the debug_printf could be changed to avoid looking like a
syscall_printf (that's what's happening in fhandler::read).

Strictly speaking the syscall_printf in fhandler_pipe::create should be
removed, and reintroduced in both pipe and _pipe, but I thought this
would be going overboard.

Pierre


