# Re: [patch] Fix multithreaded snprintf

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-09-06T18:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20070906183325.GA19790@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20070906183325.GA19790@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/09/06/18-34-00)

On Thu, Sep 06, 2007 at 11:30:17AM -0700, Brian Dessent wrote:
>
> I tracked down the problem reported in
> <http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2007-09/msg00120.html>.  The crash was
> occuring in pthread_mutex_lock, but that's a bit of a red herring.  The
> real problem is that both newlib and Cygwin provide a
> include/sys/stdio.h file, however they were out of sync with regard to
> the _flockfile definition.
>
> This comes about because vsnprintf() is implemented by creating a struct
> FILE that represents the string buffer and then this is passed to the
> standard vfprintf().  The 'flags' member of this FILE has the __SSTR
> flag set to indicate that this is just a string buffer, and consequently
> no locking should or can be performed; the lock member isn't even
> initialized.
>
> The newlib/libc/include/sys/stdio.h therefore has this:
>
> ```
> #if !defined(_flockfile)
> #ifndef __SINGLE_THREAD__
> #  define _flockfile(fp) (((fp)->_flags & __SSTR) ? 0 :
> __lock_acquire_recursive((fp)->_lock))
> #else
> ```
>
> ```
> #  define _flockfile(fp)
> #endif
> #endif
>
> #if !defined(_funlockfile)
> ```
>
> ```
> #ifndef __SINGLE_THREAD__
> #  define _funlockfile(fp) (((fp)->_flags & __SSTR) ? 0 :
> __lock_release_recursive((fp)->_lock))
> #else
> ```
>
> ```
> #  define _funlockfile(fp)
> #endif
> #endif
>
> However, the Cygwin version of this header with the same name gets
> ```
>
> preference and doesn't know to check the flags like this, and thus
> unconditionally tries to lock the stream.  This leads ultimately to a
> crash in pthread_mutex_lock because the lock member is just
> uninitialized junk.
>
> The attached patch fixes Cygwin's copy of the header and makes the
> poster's testcase function as expected.  This only would appear in a
> multithreaded program because the __cygwin_lock_* functions expand to
> no-op in the case where there's only one thread.
>
> Since this is used in a C++ file (syscalls.cc) I couldn't do the "test ?
> 0 : func()" idiom where void is the return type as that generates a
> compiler error, so I use an 'if'.


Thanks for the patch.

Go ahead and check this in but could you add a comment indicating that
this part of include/sys/stdio.h has to be kept in sync with newlib?

Nice catch!

cgf


