# Re: check_iovec cleanup

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-07-27T00:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060727001959.GA9442@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060727001959.GA9442@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/22-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/07/27/00-20-00)

On Wed, Jul 26, 2006 at 07:15:43PM -0500, Brian Ford wrote:
> On Wed, 26 Jul 2006, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > Thanks for the patch,
>
>
> Thanks for the review.
>
> > but I'm not convinced that this patch duplicates the functionality that
> > you eliminated from check_iovec.
>
>
> It doesn't exactly, but the part it doesn't didn't seem correct.  See
> below.
>
> > And, the dummytest is actually there for a reason.
>
>
> Ok, then what *is* the reason for checking only the last byte of each
> iovec buffer for read or write-ability?  Doesn't it need to check a byte
> on every system page to be complete (because buffers could start in or
> span across invalid/protected virtual addresses)?  Should an error be
> flagged if the readv wouldn't have actually accessed the invalid addresses
> (I'm not sure here)?
>
> After my patch, if the iovec buffer addresses are invalid, they will
> either be flagged as such by the underlying Windows system call, or they
> will trigger the fault handler installed above by all check_iovec callers
> if the cygwin DLL code tries to access them, no?


The "underlying Windows system call" can throw an uncaught exception.
That's why we check first.

The check is there for a reason.  When I first moved to the exception
handling method, I took all of the checking out of the iovec stuff.  I
had to put it back in because it didn't work without it.

cgf


