# Re: Races in group/passwd code (was Re: etc_changed, passwd & group)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-21T17:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030121175854.GA15711@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030121175854.GA15711@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/04-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/21/17-57-00)

On Tue, Jan 21, 2003 at 11:47:35AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > You'd need a per-thread buffer to accomplish that.  I assume that
> > is what you had in mind.
>
>
> If you look at them, most internal_get{pw,gr} calls from outside
> of passwd.cc and grp.cc only want the {u,g}id, the sid or the name,
> but never the other fields. 


getpwuid_r32

> I wanted to avoid copying the entire line, at least in the first
> two cases.


Not copying is a good goal.  I guess there is no reason why the lock
couldn't be exported to everyone.

Except for the problem with locks and signals, this isn't a big issue,
as you know.  However, since I was in the process of cleaning some of
this up, I thought I'd try to at least close the window a little.

> > I wonder how many inexplicable "cygwin hangs" issues this is
> > responsible for.
>
>
> Problems only happen when updating passwd/group while a program
> is running. At least in case of the recent BSOD, users were
> very good correlating the two events.


There is a potential for essentially causing a deadlock due to
the fact that pthread locks are not recognized by the signal code.
If a signal handler is called in the middle of a passwd or group
read, then there is a potential for a hang.  It's easy enough to
fix by using mutos and I will do that in the next couple of days.

cgf


