# Re: Races in group/passwd code (was Re: etc_changed, passwd & group)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-21T23:55:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030121235717.GC20123@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030121235717.GC20123@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/04-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/21/23-55-00)

On Tue, Jan 21, 2003 at 06:42:25PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> >
> > Btw, Pierre, can you explain the rationale behind the "check" parameter
> > that some of the internal_* functions take?  Why would you not want to
> > check for an up-to-date /etc/passwd or /etc/group?  
>
>
> Two reasons:
> 1) "check" is only true when the internal functions are called from external
> functions. getpwuid and non-reentrant friends return pointers to the malloced
> copy. They have to remain valid at least until the next non-reentrant call,
> thus cannot be invalidated by refresh from internal lookup functions.
> This could be solved with per thread storage, but it's more expensive,
> maximum size becomes an issue, etc...
> 2) internal lookups are used a lot to map uids from/to sids, so decreasing
> overhead for them looks like a good idea to make Cygwin faster.   


Ok, thanks.

> > If not for this, it
> > seems like we could get rid of the initialization check entirely and
> > just let fn_changed return true when fn[etc_ix] is uninitialized,
> > forcing an initial read/parse of the appropriate file.
>
>
> That's true for the "uninitialized" state (although it's a cheaper comparison)
> but not for the "initializing" state, at least with the current locking
> scheme. That condition is checked twice (before and after the mutex), whereas
> WaitForSingleEvent and fn_changed normally return false the second time 
> around even when true the first time.


Right, I was changing the locking to occur around the initialization check and
then wondered why we needed an initialization check at all.  I also used your
code/idea to get rid of the state entirely and just check for initialized.

cgf


