# Re: [Patch]: path.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-04-10T03:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20040409231957.00857bb0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20040409231957.00857bb0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/02-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/04/10/03-23-00)

At 08:51 PM 4/9/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> I've checked both of these in and am generating a snapshot now.
>
> Could you advertise its existence on cygwin at cygwin, Pierre?  I think
> we need feedback on these changes before we go live with a new release.


O.K. Chris, will do. However I have noticed two or three more things
(which I resisted including in the other patches).
- normalize_win32_path does not remove a trailing dot (xxxx\. )
  is that by design?
- and it does not handle names consisting only of ....
- and thus there is still a test for that in chdir, with an obsolete
  comment.
- Also, if we agree that the FIXME around line 757 is not needed,
  should we remove the comment?
- and around line 1490, in the else clause of "if (i < nmounts)",
```
  is it possible to have anything but a "C:" or UNC path (assuming
  that the root / is defined)? If so we could remove all tests and
  simply backslashify. That wouldn't really hurt when / isn't defined.   

```

Should I thus wait to advertise the snapshot until that's fixed?
(I won't touch any of that this evening).

Looking to the future, now that fs_info::update isn't really doing an
update (a better name would be fs_info::get), it turns out that the
```
  char name_storage[CYG_MAX_PATH];
  char root_dir_storage[CYG_MAX_PATH];
```

fields in fs_info can be removed (that requires a few other minor changes). 
Doing that would cut down the size of a fhandler from about 920 bytes
to 400, which looks like a good thing.

But coincidentally Corinna has also worked on related stuff today.
With her edit an even more efficient option would be to change
  fs_info fs; 
to
  fs_info * fs_ptr;
in path_conv. Corinna, are you heading that way?

I am somewhat concerned that the update of fsinfo isn't thread safe.
I don't know how the overhead of making it thread safe compares with
the overhead of the old method (not caching the fs_info).

Pierre



