# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck -m, --check-mtimes option

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-08-14T08:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20140814084101.GA17683@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20140814084101.GA17683@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/08/14/08-41-00)

On Aug 13 22:20, Christian Franke wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug  8 12:31, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Christian,
> > >
> > > On Aug  7 22:15, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Attached is an experimental patch which adds -m, --check-mtimes[=SECONDS]
> > > > option to cygcheck. It provides an IMO useful heuristics to find files
> > > > possibly modified after installation.
> > > >
> > > > "cygcheck -c -m" prints the number of files with st_mtime >
> > > > INSTALL_TIME+SECONDS. INSTALL_TIME is the st_mtime of the
> > > > /etc/setup/PACKAGE.lst.gz file.
> > > >
> > > > With -v, the affected path names are printed. The optional parameter SECONDS
> > > > defaults to 600 to hide files modified by postinstall scripts.
> > >
> > > That's an interesting idea.  I just gave it a try.  I think this might
> > > be useful,
> >
> > On second thought, the modification date isn't very meaningful all by
> > itself, is it?  In theory it's only meaningful if the file has changed
> > as well.
>
>
> That's why I called it "heuristics" :-)
>
>
> >   Consider, what is the user supposed to do with the information
> > that the file modification date has changed?  Where does the user go
> > from there?
>
>
> The info is IMO useful to find changed config files, forgotten hot fixed
> scripts or other files you possibly want to save before a package is
> updated.
>
> It also sometimes exposes package collisions (e.g. libgnutls26/28 provide
> different versions of cyggnutls-openssl-27.dll or libsasl2/2_3 provide
> different version of /usr/sbin/saslauthd).
>
>
> > So I'm wondering if the st_mtime check isn't just a starting
> > point for a test for a file change.  OTOH, we have a problem there.
> > The rudimentary package database in /etc/setup is not very helpful.
> > It only contains filenames, but no other information on the files.
> >
> > What would be really cool:  Setup generates the package info files in
> > /etc/setup with additional file size and md5 (sha1, sha256, you name it)
> > checksum.  Then cygcheck could test if st_mtime, st_size and the
> > checksum match.  Or, in a first step, just store and check the file
> > size.
>
>
> Yes, this is an obvious missing feature of the Cygwin package management. I
> didn't suggest it because my open source spare time is too limited to
> implement it :-)


That's unfortunate.  But, anyway, what about the other points I raised
in my first reply?  We could improve the -m handling as we go along.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
