# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: kill(1): skip kill(2) call if '-f -s -' is used

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-05-03T15:53:57+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250503155357.178e47383611df1a76f784f9@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250503155357.178e47383611df1a76f784f9@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/11/14-46-07.thread.md#:~:text=2025/05/03/06-53-57)

Hi Christian,

On Fri, 2 May 2025 16:09:48 +0200
Christian Franke wrote:
> Takashi Yano wrote:
> > On Tue, 15 Apr 2025 11:02:37 +0200
> > Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Hi Takashi,
> > >
> > > Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > Hi Christian,
> > > >
> > > > On Fri, 11 Apr 2025 16:46:07 +0200
> > > > Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > > In rare cases, '/bin/kill -f PID' hangs because kill(2) is always tried
> > > > > first. With this patch, this could be prevented with '/bin/kill -f -s -
> > > > > PID'.
> > > >
> > > > I wonder why kill(2) hangs. Do you have any idea?
> > >
> > > Sorry no. I observed this in early (Cygwin 3.5.4) testing of stress-ng
> > > for ITP, but could no longer reproduce it.
> > >
> > > Here are tests which currently (3.7.0-0.51.gd35cc82b5ec1) ignore but not
> > > hang kill(pid, SIGKILL):
> > >
> > > stress-ng --mprotect 1 -t 5 -v
> > > stress-ng --priv-instr 1 -t 5 -v
> > > stress-ng --sigchld 1 -t 5 -v
> > > stress-ng --sigsegv 1 -t 5 -v
> > >
> > > Run this in another window to see that child processes are left behind:
> > >
> > > killall -v -9 stress-ng; sleep 4; taskkill /F /T /IM stress-ng.exe
> > >
> > > For a minimal testcase regarding --priv-instr, see:
> > > https://sourceware.org/pipermail/cygwin/2025-March/257726.html
> >
> > I could finally fix this issue. See:
> > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2025q2/013696.html
>
>
> Thanks - I will test it soon.


I have a problem with
stress-ng --mprotect 1 -t 5 -v

It sometimes hang due to a cause which does not seem to be a
cygwin bug.

stress-ng seems to use SIGALRM to stop processes. In mprotect
case, SIGARLM is armed before stopping SIGSEGV. What I observed
is:

1. SIGARLM is armed.
2. stress_handle_stop_stressing() is called.
3. Just after stress_handle_stop_stressing() is called, SIGSEGV
   occurs inside the stress_handle_stop_stressing().
4. SIGSEGV handler is called and longjmp() is executed.
5. stress_handle_stop_stressing() can not continue because
   longjmp() does not return.

Therefore, timeout (SIGARLM) processing in stress-ng fails.

Please try
while true; do stress-ng --mprotect 1 -t 1 -v; done
with cygwin-3.7.0-0.88.gb7097ab39ed0 (Test). In my environment,
stress-ng hangs in dozens of minutes.

Could you please have a look?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


