# Re: dlclose not calling destructors of static variables.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **Date** | 2010-02-01T19:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4B6736C1.8030101@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4B6736C1.8030101@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/02/01/19-59-00)

On 01/02/2010 19:28, Dave Korn wrote:
> On 01/02/2010 17:51, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Feb 01, 2010 at 12:46:11PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > > Cribbing from the gdb source code, it looks like they use BaseAddrees + 
> > > > 0x1000 for the start point and then call GetModuleInformation to workout 
> > > > the size of the module.
> > >
> > > Yeah, duh.  "they" == "me".  I should have checked gdb for this since I've
> > > already done this research once before.
> > >
> > > If you do find that this works, then I think this may fall into the
> > > realm of a non-trivial patch so it may be best to just tell me what
> > > you've found rather than provide a patch - unless you want to go through
> > > the approval process with Red Hat.
> > >
> > > Or, you can just wait for me to adapt what's in gdb to cygwin.  I can do
> > > tonight when I get back to a windows system.
> >
> > Btw, it isn't entirely clear that GetModuleInformation will work with
> > older versions of Windows NT so this may not be a complete solution.  We
> > do use GetModuleInformation in Cygwin but it is not in anything as
> > crucial as this.
>
>
>   Can't we use the info in the dll struct?  It has pointers to the data and
> bss section, we could take the max out of them and the data in the M_B_I
> struct.  (Tell you what, I'll try it.)


  Yep, that makes the original testcase work for me.  How about it?

winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog:


```
	* dll_init.cc (remove_dll_atexit): Take pointer to dll and
	estimate end of dll more generously.
	(dll_list::detach): Update caller.

  (This is just the first patch on its way relating to this subject.)

    cheers,
      DaveK
```



---

**Attachments:**

- [mbi-fix.diff](mbi-fix.diff) (text)
