# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: malloc_wrapper: port to AArch64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-21T15:46:25+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aH5EsVT1Hhe_7yHV@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aH5EsVT1Hhe_7yHV@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/19-21-43.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/21/13-46-25)

On Jul 21 15:38, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul 21 14:15, Jon Turney wrote:
> > If Radek is going to be adding Signed-off: lines of behalf of his
> > colleagues, maybe this is an appropriate place to ask what he thinks he's
> > attesting to with it?
> >
> >
> > Corinna,
> >
> > Maybe the "Before you get started" section in [1] should mention Signed-off:
> > and what we think it means?
>
>
> That's a good point.
>
> dll.html is outdated.  We don't use the CONTRIBUTORS file anymore.  It
> was a remnant of the past, when we switched our license and we still
> needed to keep track of the developers and the 2-clause BSD rule while
> long-living contracts with the old buyout license were still active.


On second thought, I think we should rename the file to
PAST_CONTRIBUTORS and prepend some lines that we switched to the
Developer Certificate of Origin, pointing to dll.html...

> These days, I would like to enforce the Signed-off-by: line and it
> should have the same place and same significance as in the Linux kernel,
> that is...
>
>   https://developercertificate.org/
>
> Briefly, the sign-off means, that the contributor has, both, the right
> and the willingness, to contribute code to this project under the
> project's open source license, i.e., GPL v3+ in case of Cygwin.
>
> > If we really want it to be mandatory, I guess I could explore the
> > possibility of a push hook to enforce that?
> >
> > [1] https://cygwin.com/contrib/dll.html
>


...and dll.html should be written anew from the pararaph starting
with "If your change is going to be a significant one"... by just
stating that we expect a Developer Certificate of Origin per
https://developercertificate.org/, i.e., a "Signed-off-by:" line
per patch.


Does that sound about right?


Thanks,
Corinna


> Yeah, but there's one twist: We don't and can't enforce Signed-off-by:
> lines in case of contributions to newlib.  Newlib is not under GPL.
> Rather it's a collection of multiple open source licenses.  So in case
> of newlib the meaning of a signed-off is rather fuzzy.
>
> Therefore we only can enforce contributions to Cygwin code and docs.
>
>
> Corinna



