# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: malloc_wrapper: port to AArch64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-21T09:41:02-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b434de5f-9984-4113-bd0c-cb71b43e816a@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b434de5f-9984-4113-bd0c-cb71b43e816a@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/19-21-43.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/21/15-41-02)

On 2025-07-21 07:46, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul 21 15:38, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jul 21 14:15, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > If Radek is going to be adding Signed-off: lines of behalf of his
> > > colleagues, maybe this is an appropriate place to ask what he thinks he's
> > > attesting to with it?
> > >
> > >
> > > Corinna,
> > >
> > > Maybe the "Before you get started" section in [1] should mention Signed-off:
> > > and what we think it means?
> >
> >
> > That's a good point.
> >
> > dll.html is outdated.  We don't use the CONTRIBUTORS file anymore.  It
> > was a remnant of the past, when we switched our license and we still
> > needed to keep track of the developers and the 2-clause BSD rule while
> > long-living contracts with the old buyout license were still active.
>
>
> On second thought, I think we should rename the file to
> PAST_CONTRIBUTORS and prepend some lines that we switched to the
> Developer Certificate of Origin, pointing to dll.html...
>
> > These days, I would like to enforce the Signed-off-by: line and it
> > should have the same place and same significance as in the Linux kernel,
> > that is...
> >
> >    https://developercertificate.org/
> >
> > Briefly, the sign-off means, that the contributor has, both, the right
> > and the willingness, to contribute code to this project under the
> > project's open source license, i.e., GPL v3+ in case of Cygwin.
>


Add that to CONTRIBUTORS.

> > > If we really want it to be mandatory, I guess I could explore the
> > > possibility of a push hook to enforce that?
> > >
> > > [1] https://cygwin.com/contrib/dll.html
> >
>
>
> ...and dll.html should be written anew from the pararaph starting
> with "If your change is going to be a significant one"... by just
> stating that we expect a Developer Certificate of Origin per
> https://developercertificate.org/, i.e., a "Signed-off-by:" line
> per patch.


That site is about Linux Foundation contributors, so I think we may credit it, 
but add the relevant or modified paragraphs (especially licensing) to our 
CONTRIBUTORS and/or dll.html, with any conditions and limitations for newlib 
contributions and tree, and cygwin-patches contributions and winsup tree.
> Does that sound about right?
> > Yeah, but there's one twist: We don't and can't enforce Signed-off-by:
> > lines in case of contributions to newlib.  Newlib is not under GPL.
> > Rather it's a collection of multiple open source licenses.  So in case
> > of newlib the meaning of a signed-off is rather fuzzy.
> >
> > Therefore we only can enforce contributions to Cygwin code and docs.
>

Document what licence statements (or give source prefix example files) need to 
be at the top of new files added under each tree?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


