# Re: [PATCH] Re: 1.7 winbase.h (ilockcmpexch) compile error

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-07-08T09:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090708090638.GY12258@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090708090638.GY12258@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/21-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/07/08/09-06-00)

On Jul  8 01:11, Dave Korn wrote:
> Dave Korn wrote:
>
> >   It doesn't do anything about the reload failure, which is a bug in GCC-3,
> > since the usage is a standard usage supported by the documentation.  It's
> > possible that it may disappear as a side-effect, in which case all the better.
>
>
> ```
>   Nope, no such luck.
>
>   Also, the libstdc++ patch has really done for compiling it with gcc-3, which
> ```
>
> doesn't support the weak attribute.  It also has a bug that for some reason
> two of the wrapper functions in libstdcxx_malloc.cc are emitted under their
> real names, rather than the asm("__real__*") name specified.  There's also the
> inline asm bug and there's a number of other warnings about type conversions.
>
>   All of these could in theory be worked around.  We could compile the files
> using the inline asm with -O0, and fix the type conversion warnings(*), and we
> would have to work around the lack of support for weaks in the compiler by
> providing the definition of the __cygwin_cxx_malloc struct in assembler
> source, and probably the same for the wrapper function names, but I'm not
> inclined to do so unless there's serious demand for it.


So we can't build Cygwin with gcc-3 anymore?  I'm wondering if I'm
concerned or annoyed or sad or angry about that...

[...time passes...]

Hmm, no, not really.  What was the problem again?

But seriously, I'm still using gcc 4.3.2 20080827 (alpha-testing) 1
for building Cygwin.  Is that sufficient for now or should I upgrade?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


