# Re: [PATCH v3 0/3] use wincap in format_proc_cpuinfo for user_shstk

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-06-19T12:27:12-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b28206d5-bbfc-745b-1f69-305010a9939b@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b28206d5-bbfc-745b-1f69-305010a9939b@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/17-17-07.thread.md#:~:text=2023/06/19/18-27-12)

On 2023-06-19 02:55, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun 16 15:26, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2023-06-16 13:51, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Brian,
> > >
> > > On Jun 16 11:17, Brian Inglis wrote:
> >
> >
> > vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
> > > > Fixes: 41fdb869f998 "fhandler/proc.cc(format_proc_cpuinfo): Add Linux 6.3 cpuinfo"
> > >
> >
> > ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> >
> > vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
> > > > In test for for AMD/Intel Control flow Enforcement Technology user mode
> > > > shadow stack support replace Windows version tests with test of wincap
> > > > member addition has_user_shstk with Windows version dependent value
> > >
> >
> > ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> >
> > > Is that actually the final version?  It's still missing the commit
> > > message text explaining things and the "Fixes" line...
> >
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > Is more required above?
>
>
> No, it's fine, albeit "Fixes:" is supposed to be kind of like a footer,
> just where the "Signed-off-by:" is, too.
>
> But it's still only in the cover letter.  As I wrote, it needs to go
> into the actual patch, otherwise all the nice info doesn't make it into
> the git repo.


Ahah - finally got the point, although I wondered about whether a cover could be 
added as a note to the patches, and found that since early 2022 git 2.35+ allows

	$ git ... am --empty=keep --allow-empty ...

to create an empty commit, with the contents of the e-mail message as its log.
As we are on 2.39 you may already know this and prefer to keep the log clear. YMMV
Emailed v4.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


