# Re: [PATCH] Ensure PSAPI_VERSION is 1 when building ldd

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-05-27T21:08:31+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YK/uL8Y6vR5opKSM@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YK/uL8Y6vR5opKSM@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/17-46-35.thread.md#:~:text=2021/05/27/19-08-31)

On May 27 18:30, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 26/05/2021 20:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On May 26 13:04, Yaakov Selkowitz wrote:
> > > On Wed, 2021-05-26 at 17:51 +0100, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 26/05/2021 10:04, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On May 25 22:37, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > On 22/05/2021 16:08, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > > On 20/05/2021 19:05, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > > > Hi Jon,
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > On May 20 18:46, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > > > > > The default PSAPI_VERSION is controlled by WIN32_WINNT, which we
> > > > > > > > > set to
> > > > > > > > > 0x0a00 when building ldd, which gets PSAPI_VERSION=2.
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > In the just released w32api 9.0.0, _WIN32_WINNT is now set to 0xa00 by
> > > > > > default, so this issue is probably going to surface in a few other
> > > > > > places as
> > > > > > well.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > I added _WIN32_WINNT and NTDDI_VERSION settings to make sure we notice
> > > > > any problems right away.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I'm not sure what the mechanism by which we're going to notice is?
> > >
> >
> >
> > Build problems?
>
>
> :confused:
>
> This is a run time problem, not a build time problem.
>
> ```
> #define WIN32_WINNT=0x0a00 ->
> #define PSAPI_VERSION 2 ->
> #define GetModuleFileNameExA K32GetModuleFileNameExA ->
> The procedure entry point K32GetModuleFilenameExA could not be located in
> ```
>
> the dynamic link library kernel32.dll


I didn't mean PSAPI_VERSION above, but the _WIN32_WINNT setting in the first
place.  Changing them can lead to surprising results in terms of what's defined
and what isn't.  PSAPI_VERSION is the icing, of course.

> > > > Adding WIN32_WINNT=0x0a00 everywhere changes the meaning of '#include
> > > > <psapi.h>' in a way that is incompatible with Vista.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Isn't that easily fixed by adding PSAPI_VERSION=1 prior to including
> > psapi.h?  We can add that to the Makefile as well...
>


What about this?

> > > > So this has broken dumper, and possibly other utils, on Vista.
> > > >
> > > > I don't know if there are any other imports in other header which also
> > > > have this annoying behaviour...
> > >
> >
> >
> > I think the psapi stuff is the only one changing their imports.
> >
> > > Does Vista REALLY still need to be supported at this point?
> >
> >
> > It's probably not much of a problem but per the latest statistics
> > we still have... uhm... about 4 Vista users...
>
>
> '4 users running setup per week' != '4 users'


That was a joke :)


Corinna


