# Re: [Patch] Encode invalid chars in /proc/registry entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-11-22T11:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071122111322.GL30894@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071122111322.GL30894@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/21-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/11/22/11-13-00)

On Nov 16 20:25, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Thanks for this patch.  Apart from the missing ChangeLog I'm inclined
> > to apply it to the upcoming 1.5.25 release, but I don't like to have it
> > in HEAD as is.
>
>
> Thanks, I would appreciate to have this issue fixed in the bugfix release.
>
> Here is a new version of the patch and a ChangeLog.
>
> The names "." and ".." are now also encoded. Theses are also valid as 
> Key/Value Names and ".." may result in infinite recursion.


Thanks, I've tested it on my machine and I've applied the patch to the
cr-0x5f1 branch.

> > So, for HEAD I'd like to ask you to allow arbitrary path lengths in your
> > code.  Personally I could live with restricting registry paths to
> > PATH_MAX as well.
>
>
> Agree. Probably Cygwin should never descend paths that exceed PATH_MAX, as 
> an application using PATH_MAX may have no buffer overflow check.


I agree.

> > While you're digging in registry code anyway... would you be interested
> > to convert the entire registry code to wide char and long path names?
> > I'd be glad for any help.
>
>
> I will have a look at it, but be patient. Is current HEAD a reasonable 
> starting point or is there a better (more stable) snapshot?


Usually HEAD is the *only* valid starting point.


Thanks again for the patch,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


