# Re: [PATCH 0/2] Fix a bad case of absolute path handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-11-12T09:30:27-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [221514b7-28c9-2a33-92e2-61537b1407b4@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/221514b7-28c9-2a33-92e2-61537b1407b4@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/20-32-51.thread.md#:~:text=2021/11/12/16-30-27)

On 2021-11-10 15:22, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 11/10/2021 3:32 PM, corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com wrote:
> > From: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> >
> > As I told Takashi in PM, I will try to more often send patches to the
> > cygwin-patches ML before pushing them, so there's a chance to chime in.
>
>
> LGTM.
>
> > This patch series is supposed to address the `rm -rf' problem reported
> > in https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2021-November/249837.html
> >
> > It was always frustrating, having to allow DOS drive letter paths for
> > backward compatibility.  This here is another case of ambiguity,
> > triggered by the `isabspath' macro handling "X:" as absolute path, even
> > without the trailing slash or backslash.
> >
> > Check out the 2nd patch for a more detailed description.
> >
> > While at it, I wonder if we might have a chance to fix these ambiguities
> > in a better way.  For instance, consider this:
> >
> > ```
> >    $ mkdir -p test/c:
> >    $ cd test
> >
> > As non-admin:
> > ```
> >
> >
> >    $ touch c:/foo
> >    touch: cannot touch 'c:/foo': Permission denied
> >
> > As admin, even worse:
> >
> >    $ touch c:/foo
> >    $ ls /cygdrive/c/foo
> >    foo
> >
> > As long as we support DOS paths as input, I have a hard time to see how
> > to fix this, but maybe we can at least minimize the ambiguity somehow.
>
>
> I can't immediately think of anything.  But is it really impossible to 
> phase out DOS path support over a period of time?  We could start with a 
> HEADS-UP, asking for comments, then a deprecation announcement, then 
> something like the old dosfilewarning option, then a more forceful 
> warning that can't be turned off, and finally removal of support.  This 
> could be done over a period of several years (not sure how many).
>
> We could also put lines like
>
>    # C:/ on /c type ntfs (binary,posix=0)
>
> into the default /etc/fstab.


NO! BTDT GTS.
Try getting help from any DOS/cmd type command or subcommand.
Shell expands /? to list of all mapped drives /c /d ... /s /v /y which 
gives you a bunch of potentially destructive switches.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


