# Re: [PATCH] Use automake (v3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2020-12-08T15:50:22Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4d97646f-0d7f-2980-f6da-91c6bd7d15cc@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4d97646f-0d7f-2980-f6da-91c6bd7d15cc@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/24/13-37-20.thread.md#:~:text=2020/12/08/15-50-22)

On 02/12/2020 19:03, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Dec  2 13:33, Yaakov Selkowitz via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On Wed, 2020-12-02 at 18:03 +0000, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 02/12/2020 17:05, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > On Dec  2 15:36, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > On 01/12/2020 09:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > What bugs me is that the mingw executables are built in
> > > > > > utils/mingw,
> > > > > > but the object files are still in utils.  Any problem
> > > > > > generating the
> > > > > > object files in utils/mingw, too?
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Not easily.
> > > > >
> > > > > This behaviour can be turned off by not using the 'subdir-
> > > > > objects' automake
> > > > > option.
> > > > >
> > > > > But then automake warns that option is disabled (since it's going
> > > > > to be the
> > > > > default in future).
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > So why not just move the mingw source files to utils/mingw, too?
> > >
> > >
> > > There's probably some scope for doing that, but not in all cases, as
> > > some files are built multiple times with different compilers and/or
> > > flags.
> > >
> > > e.g. path.cc is built with a cygwin compiler and -DFSTAB as part of
> > > mount, with a MinGW compiler as part of cygcheck, and with a MinGW
> > > compiler and -DTESTSUITE as part of path-testsuite.
> >
> >
> > Then something like:
> >
> > $ cat > winsup/utils/mingw/path.cc <<_EOF
> > #define MINGW // whatever is needed here...
> > #include "../path.cc"
> > _EOF
> >
> > ??
>
>
> +1


Sure, there are plenty of ways of rearranging the code to address this.

I'm not sure I see what the benefit of that additional complexity is.



