# Re: [PATCH draft 0/6] Remove the fhandler_base_overlapped class

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2019-06-07T21:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [b5a2e878-0282-d94e-92de-c4605dea4000@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b5a2e878-0282-d94e-92de-c4605dea4000@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/26/15-10-00-2.thread.md#:~:text=2019/06/07/21-43-00)

On 6/7/2019 3:13 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 6/7/2019 2:31 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > Ken Brown writes:
> > > I think I've found the problem.  I was mishandling signals that arrived during a
> > > read.  But after I fix that, there's still one nagging issue involving timerfd
> > > code.  I'll write to the main list with details.  I *think* it's a timerfd bug,
> > > but it's puzzling that I only see it when testing my new pipe implementation.
> >
> >
> > Anything triggering a race or deadlock will depend on so many other
> > things that it really is no surprise to see seemingly unrelated changes
> > making the bug appear or disappear.  There are certainly races left in
> > Cygwin, I see them from time to time in various Perl modules, just never
> > reproducible enough to give anyone an idea of where to look.
>
>
> That makes sense.
>
> In the meantime, I've already discovered another problem, within an hour of
> posting my claim that everything was working fine: If I start emacs-X11 with
> cygserver running, I can't fork any subprocesses within emacs.  I get
>
> 0 [main] emacs 2689 dofork: child 2693 - died waiting for dll loading, errno 11
>
> Back to the drawing board....  I've never looked at the cygserver code, but
> maybe it will turn out to be something easy.


Good news (for me): This isn't related to my pipe code.  The same problem occurs 
if I build the master branch.  I'll bisect when I get a chance (probably 
tomorrow).  In the meantime, all I can say is that strace shows a 
STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION at shm.cc:125.

Ken


