# Re: [PATCH] Disable AF_UNIX handshake with setsockopt(..., SO_PEERCRED, ...)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-10-13T09:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20141013090508.GA24654@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20141013090508.GA24654@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/12-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/10/13/09-05-00)

On Oct 13 10:20, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct 13 07:37, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Oct 10 20:04, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > In short, the whole code is written under the assumption that any sane
> > > > application calling nonblocking connect would always call select/poll to
> > > > check if connect succeeded in the first place.  Obviously, as postfix
> > > > shows, this is a wrong assumption.
> > > >
> > > > I'm not yet sure how to fix this, but I'll look into this next week.
> > >
> > > I applied a fix which, I think, is much more elegant than the former
> > > solution.  The af_local_connect call is now called as soon as an
> > > FD_CONNECT event is generated and read by a call to wait_event.  It
> > > worked for me, so I have tender hopes that I didn't miss something.
> > >
> > > I also applied your patch on top of this new stuff and I'm just building
> > > a new developer snapshot for testing.
> >
> >
> > A quick test of current postfix draft with the snapshot works as expected.
> > Thanks.
>
>
> Did you run other network-related tools, too, in the meantime?  Any
> fallout which could be a result my change?
>
> > >   In setsockopt I added a check for
> > > socket family and type so setsockopt(SO_PEERCRED) only works for
> > > AF_LOCAL/SOCK_STREAM sockets, just as the entire handshake stuff.
> >
> >
> > Probably not needed because this check was already in
> > af_local_set_no_getpeereid() itself.
>
>
> Doh!  I reverted this part of my change.  I completely missed the
> redundancy here, sorry.
>
> > >   I
> > > also added a comment to explain why we do this and a FIXME comment so we
> > > don't forget we're still looking for a more generic solution for the
> > > SO_PEERCRED exchange.
> >
> >
> > Definitely, at least because the current AF_LOCAL emulation has some
> > security issues.
>
>
> -v?


Btw., I'd be grateful if we could discuss this on cygwin-developers,
if you don't mind.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
