# Re: [psusi@cfl.rr.com: Bug report in installer]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-07-09T07:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010709103525.B19635@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010709103525.B19635@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/07/09/07-35-00)

Check it in, please, Egor?

Thanks,
cgf

On Mon, Jul 09, 2001 at 11:01:03AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Monday, 09 July, 2001 egor duda deo@logos-m.ru wrote:
>
> ed> Hi!
>
> ed> Monday, 09 July, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> CF>> Didn't we fix this some time ago?
>
> ed> I've submitted a patch for this, but it apparently wasn't applied.
> ed> i'll remake it against current sources and resubmit it.
>
> Uhm, i should have looked before posting this. it was applied, but the
> problem is with foreground. not background. here's the patch.
>
> CF>> ----- Forwarded message from Phillip Susi <psusi@cfl.rr.com> -----
> CF>> From: Phillip Susi <psusi@cfl.rr.com>
> CF>> To: cygwin@cygwin.com
> CF>> Subject: Bug report in installer
> CF>> Date: Sun, 08 Jul 2001 14:05:28 -0400
>
> CF>> Hi, I just installed the latest cygwin from the web site, and there is a 
> CF>> bug in the installer UI:
>
> CF>> When you select which components to install, it draws the names of the 
> CF>> components in black text, assuming the user's background color is 
> CF>> white.  My color scheme is white text on a black background, and so the 
> CF>> installer used the black background, with the black text, so I couldn't see 
> CF>> it.  When drawing text, you should use the windows color scheme foreground 
> CF>> text color, not force it to be black.
>
> CF>>    -->Phillip Susi
> CF>>       psusi@cfl.rr.com
> CF>> ----- End forwarded message -----
>
> Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19




-- 
cgf@cygnus.com                        Red Hat, Inc.
http://sources.redhat.com/            http://www.redhat.com/


