# Re: Threaded Cygwin Python Import Problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jason Tishler <Jason.Tishler@dothill.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-07-09T14:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010709171242.D434@dothill.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010709171242.D434@dothill.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/30/06-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/07/09/14-12-00)

Rob,

[Note python-dev@python.org has been trimmed from the CC list.]

On Sat, Jun 30, 2001 at 11:20:19AM -0400, Jason Tishler wrote:
> On Sat, Jun 30, 2001 at 09:16:48AM -0400, Norman Vine wrote:
> > Jason Tishler
> > > The one that I would like to address in this posting prevents a threaded
> > > Cygwin Python from building the standard extension modules (without some
> > > kind of intervention).  :,(  Specifically, the build would frequently
> > > hang during the Distutils part when Cygwin Python is attempting to execvp
> > > a gcc process.
> >
> > I was experiencing the same problems as Jason with Win2k sp1 and
> > had used the same work-around successfully.
> > < I believe Jason is working with NT 4.0 sp 5 >
> >
> > Curiously after applying the Win2k sp2 I no longer need to do this
> > and the original Python code works fine.
> >
> > Leading me to believe that this may be but a symptom of a another
> > Windows mystery.
>
>
> After further reflection, I feel that I have found another race/deadlock
> issue with the Cygwin's pthreads implementation.  If I'm correct, this
> would explain why you experienced it intermittently with Windows 2000
> SP1 and it is "gone" with SP2.  Probably SP2 slows down your machine so
> much that the problem is not triggered. :,)
>
> I am going to reconfigure --with-pydebug and set THREADDEBUG.  Hopefully,
> the hang will still be reproducible under these conditions.  If so,
> then I will attempt to produce a minimal C test case for Rob to use to
> isolate and solve this problem.


Although I have not arrived at a minimal C test case, I have attached
two gdb sessions that exhibit the hang.  The first one is produced by:

    python test.py

and the second by:

    ./python test.py

I find it curious that the hang occurs in different places dependent on
how python is invoked -- via PATH or full pathname.  I'm also at a lose
as to why sometimes I get "Cannot access memory at address ..." errors.
Can anyone explain what is going on?

Note that the hang does not occur with test2.py which does not fork/exec.
This seems to imply that the problem is tickled only in child processes.

Is the information provided in this email useful in helping you find
the problem?  If not, what else can I provide to assist you?

Alternatively, you can use the attached patch to build a threaded Cygwin
Python to try to reproduce the problem yourself.  Once built, you need
to reverse the patch to exhibit the problem.  The procedure is as follows:

```
    $ wget -P /tmp -nd ftp://mirrors.rcn.net/mirrors/sources.redhat.com/cygwin/contrib/python/python-2.1-1-src.tar.gz
    $ # save os.py patch to /tmp
    $ # save test.py attachment to /tmp
    $ tar -xzf /tmp/python-2.1-1-src.tar.gz
    $ cd Python-2.1/Lib
    $ patch </tmp/os.py.patch
    $ cd ..
    $ configure
    $ make
    $ patch -R </tmp/os.py.patch
    $ ./python /tmp/test.py

```

Thanks,
Jason

-- 
Jason Tishler
Director, Software Engineering       Phone: 732.264.8770 x235
Dot Hill Systems Corp.               Fax:   732.264.8798
82 Bethany Road, Suite 7             Email: Jason.Tishler@dothill.com
Hazlet, NJ 07730 USA                 WWW:   http://www.dothill.com


