# Re: Export fast *rint* functions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-12-29T18:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071229181025.GF24999@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071229181025.GF24999@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/18-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/12/29/18-10-00)

On Sat, Dec 29, 2007 at 05:57:51PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> On 29 December 2007 17:30, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Sat, Dec 29, 2007 at 05:22:31PM -0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> > > On 29 December 2007 17:04, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > >
> > > > I assume that the above comment about aliasing needs to know right?
> > >
> > >
> > >  Sorry, can't parse that.  ENOCOFFEE?  ;-)
> >
> >
> > I meant "go" above.  I got distracted by my stupid turtle who, after
> > twelve years of docility in the tank behind me, has decided to spend the
> > last two months frantically trying to claw his way out of his tank.
> >
> > I guess I just don't understand what the aliasing is all about here.
>
>
>  Right, it goes like this:
>
> -  At the moment, all the new x87 *rint* functions are implemented as fast
> math variants in newlib, with '_f_' prefixes to the function names.  (I'm not
> convinced this is necessarily correct, but that's the way it is right now;
> when Jeff gets back I'll discuss whether and why they can or can't be
> considered first-class implementations).
>
> -  For the functions that didn't already exist (i.e., all except
> rint/rintf/lrint/lrintf), Jeff added wrappers using the POSIX standard names
> that call through to the equivalent _f_ hard-fp version of the same function.
>
>  Now, these wrappers are fairly superfluous.  They set up a stack frame,
> immediately tear it down, then tail-call to the underlying _f_ function.
>
>  So, I figured, if someone's linking against the DLL and needs one of these
> functions, why not get the link to resolve directly to the _f_ function and
> avoid the wrapper?  It won't make a great deal of impact to debuggability or
> stack traces and it saves a few wasted instructions.
>
>  Also, the existing soft-float implementations of rint/rintf/lrint/lrintf are
> still present in newlib; they are not overridden by the _f_ versions.  So any
> app that links against these will continue to get the old slow soft float
> version.  By exporting the _f_ version with the name of the non-_f_ version,
> apps will link against the hard fp version instead.
>
>  OTOH, I can see how this could be a bit confusing and make setting
> breakpoints a bit tricky.  I could remove the aliasing for the new functions
> and make calls go through the wrapper, but there aren't any wrappers for the
> existing functions, just soft-float implementations, so at least those
> functions would still need to be aliased to the _f_ versions.  Long-term, my
> plan is to either provide wrappers for those existing functions (in a
> cygwin-only patch to newlib), or if there are no compliance problems to
> promote all the _f_*rint* functions to first-class versions, losing the _f_
> prefix and wrapper altogether.


Ok.  Thanks very much for the explanation.

Since we're still tinkering with 1.7.x, I think it's ok to check these in
even if things may change eventually.

So check this in but you do also have to bump CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR
and document what you're exporting in include/cygwin/version.h along with
these changes.

cgf


