# Re: [setup] move view from left to right

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-06-15T15:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160615153936.GF27295@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160615153936.GF27295@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/06/15/15-39-00)

On Jun 15 16:52, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> On 15/06/2016 16:37, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> > On 15/06/2016 14:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Marco,
> > >
> > >
> > > in theory patches to setup should go to the cygwin-apps list, but
> > > never mind, cygwin-patches is just as well.
> > >
> > > On Jun 15 12:06, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> > > > I always found counter intuitive to have the view button filter on
> > > > the right.
> > >
> > >
> > > Do you have a screenshot to show how this looks, by any chance?
> >
> >
>
>
> Spam filter don't like pictures so, I put them here:
> http://matzeri.altervista.org/works/setup/


Thank you.  What strikes me immediately is that the search field and
clear button are not in the same height.  I never noticed before.
Actually, I think search field and clear button are a pixel too narrow.

And in the second picture the "Not installed" text is too far left.

What about this:

- Arrange the "View" button with the left side of the package table.

- Arrange the accompanying text right of the button.

- Move "Search [...] Clear" to the center?

- If you don't mind the extra work, align the y-pos and height of the
  search stuff to the other elements in the row?

> > > > I was also thinking to replace the 3 button choice with
> > > > 2 sets:
> > > >
> > > > keep vs update
> > > > exp vs current
> > > >
> > > > but the update logic on
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >  ChooserPage::keepClicked()
> > > >  ChooserPage::changeTrust(trusts aTrust)
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > it is not really immediate.
> > >
> > >
> > > I agree, but the idea makes sense.  If you ever have fun to hack on
> > > this, please feel free.
> >
> >
>
>
> I need to refresh my C++ knowledge to understand what
> changeTrust is doing, so it could take a while.


Same here :)


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
