# RE: [PATCH] mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-12T04:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D29E8@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D29E8@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](04-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/12/04-32-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Faylor [mailto:cgf@redhat.com] 
> Sent: Friday, January 11, 2002 10:19 PM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH] mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user
>
>
> On Fri, Jan 11, 2002 at 08:59:47PM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > Corinna,
> >  You probably don't remember this, but I had volunteered back in 
> > December to make the error messages in mkpasswd a bit more user 
> > friendly.  Well, I finally took a few free moments to take a stab at 
> > it.  I sprinkled a liberal dose of FormatMessage wherever error 
> > reporting was going on.  So before, where there'd be a message that 
> > basically said, "You got error number 12345", now it'll 
>
> print out the 
> > corresponding text.
>
>
> These are nice changes, but I have a few observations:
>
> 1) The ChangeLog needs work.  See http://cygwin.com/contrib.html .


Bleh.  It's always my Changelog.  I seem to be Changelog challenged, but I
used exactly the same format that I used last time.

> 2) I don't think there is any reason to report the number if you
> ```
>    are translating the text, so, I'd prefer:
>
>    mkpasswd: The user name could not be found
>
> ```
>
> 3) Rather than sprinkle FormatMessage throughout the code, couldn't
> ```
>    a single function be used instead.  It looks like mkpasswd just
>    needs some kind of generic error function which takes an argument
>    indicating whether to translate the Windows error or not.
> ```
>


Ok.  I'll do that.

> I look forward to getting these into cygwin.  Translating the 
> errors will reduce a lot of user confusion.
>
> Btw, do you have an assignment on file with Red Hat?  I can't 
> remember. If not, you'll need to send in an assignment as 
> referenced in the above URL.


Yeah.  I did one for the -u option of mkpasswd.


