# Re: [PATCH 0/2] Fix a bad case of absolute path handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-11-10T17:22:05-05:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f6a4f67f-1db4-4e53-7907-c7a7dcfbde79@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f6a4f67f-1db4-4e53-7907-c7a7dcfbde79@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-32-51.thread.md#:~:text=2021/11/10/22-22-05)

On 11/10/2021 3:32 PM, corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com wrote:
> From: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
>
> As I told Takashi in PM, I will try to more often send patches to the
> cygwin-patches ML before pushing them, so there's a chance to chime in.


LGTM.

> This patch series is supposed to address the `rm -rf' problem reported
> in https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2021-November/249837.html
>
> It was always frustrating, having to allow DOS drive letter paths for
> backward compatibility.  This here is another case of ambiguity,
> triggered by the `isabspath' macro handling "X:" as absolute path, even
> without the trailing slash or backslash.
>
> Check out the 2nd patch for a more detailed description.
>
> While at it, I wonder if we might have a chance to fix these ambiguities
> in a better way.  For instance, consider this:
>
> ```
>    $ mkdir -p test/c:
>    $ cd test
>
> ```
>
> As non-admin:
>
> ```
>    $ touch c:/foo
>    touch: cannot touch 'c:/foo': Permission denied
>
> ```
>
> As admin, even worse:
>
> ```
>    $ touch c:/foo
>    $ ls /cygdrive/c/foo
>    foo
>
> ```
>
> As long as we support DOS paths as input, I have a hard time to see how
> to fix this, but maybe we can at least minimize the ambiguity somehow.


I can't immediately think of anything.  But is it really impossible to phase out 
DOS path support over a period of time?  We could start with a HEADS-UP, asking 
for comments, then a deprecation announcement, then something like the old 
dosfilewarning option, then a more forceful warning that can't be turned off, 
and finally removal of support.  This could be done over a period of several 
years (not sure how many).

We could also put lines like

   # C:/ on /c type ntfs (binary,posix=0)

into the default /etc/fstab.

Ken


