# Re: [PATCH] Package content search and listing functionality for cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2003-08-15T19:38:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308151532550.1848-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308151532550.1848-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/15/19-38-00)

Corinna,

Thanks for the feedback.  Replies inline below.

On Fri, 15 Aug 2003, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Thu, Aug 14, 2003 at 03:30:44PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > This patch adds the functionality to cygcheck to list (using the "-l" or
> > "--list-package" flag) the contents of and search (using the "-f" or
> > "--find-package" flag and passing the absolute paths to the files) for
> > files in the *installed* packages.  Please test this and feel free to give
> > feedback.  I've done some refactoring of the code in dump_setup.cc as
>
>
> Cool, especially the -f which allows the same as `rpm -qf'.  However,
> you asked for feedback... (I dropped the "Use -h to see..." from below
> examples, we should get rid of it anyway)
>
> On Cygwin:
>
> ```
>   $ cygcheck -f /usr/bin/tcsh.exe
>   /usr/bin/tcsh.exe: found in package tcsh-6.12.00-6
>
> ```
>
> On Linux:
>
> ```
>   $ rpm -qf /usr/bin/tcsh
>   tcsh-6.12.00-134
>
> ```
>
> Shouldn't we also just print the package name?  It doesn't really matter,
> just a question...


Fixed.

> But we have two problems which are no problems in Linux and it would be
> nice(TM) to have a neat solution for them.  Example:
>
> ```
> $ cygcheck -f /usr/bin/tcsh
> $
>
> Huh?  No .exe, no package :-(
> ```
>
>
> ```
> $ cygcheck -f /bin/tcsh
> $
> ```
>


Fixed.  One thing left to do is to verify that /usr/bin is indeed an alias
for /bin (and /usr/lib an alias for /lib) -- although I think plenty of
other things will break if this is not the case.

> Do you see what I mean?  Since /bin and /usr/bin (same for /lib) are
> the same directory, one could ask for the same file in /bin and would
> not get the package reply.  Bummer.  I don't see that as a big problem
> for files in /lib but I guess you should expect that a good bunch of
> people don't get the idea to ask for the same file in /usr/bin again.
>
> Corinna


Well, I agree with all the above points, so here's another iteration.
Same ChangeLog (except for the date -- reposting just in case).
	Igor
==============================================================================
ChangeLog:
2003-08-15  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>

	* cygcheck.cc (find_package,list_package): New global
	variables.
	(usage): Add "--find-package" and "--list-package" options,
	reformat output.
	(longopts, opts): Add "--find-package" and "--list-package"
	options.
	(main): Process the "--find-package" and "--list-package"
	flags.  Add new semantic checks.  Add calls to find_package()
	and list_package().
	* dump_setup.cc: Fix header comment.
	(match_argv): Change return type to int to distinguish
	between real matches and default ones.
	(open_package_list): New static function.
	(check_package_files): Factor out opening the package list
	file into open_package_list().
	(get_packages): New static function.
	(dump_setup): Factor out getting a list of packages into
	get_packages().
	(package_list, package_find): New global functions.

-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck-list-packages.patch](cygcheck-list-packages.patch) (text)
