# Re: Fwd: write(2) return codes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-05-09T12:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020509194411.GU6910@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020509194411.GU6910@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/05/09/12-43-00)

On Thu, May 09, 2002 at 12:28:57PM -0700, david f wrote:
> Now maybe this will get some attention on the second attempt.  I posted
> this last week with no response.
>
> The read and write system calls return the incorrect error code in some
> cases.  Details for write are below.  I have attached a patch that
> should address this problem, but since the build of cygwin 1.3.10 is so
> broken I have not been able to test it.


Yeah, right.  It's impossible to build 1.3.10.  I wonder how we managed
to even build it for a release.  That's rather astonishing.

> In answer to my previous question, there is a POSIX validation service
> which
>
> might help catch more problems like this: the Federal Information
> Processing
>
> Standard 151-2.  It is available at
> http://www.opengroup.org/testing/fips/ and seems to cover a lot more
> test cases than the ltp included with cygwin.


Yep.  A scan of the mailing list archives might unearth the fact that
others have run these tests in the past.  I used to do it a few years
ago to check signal compatibility but I doubt if anyone has done this
for some time.

> I ran most of the tests and there were many failures, but as I do not
> have NTFS, anything that uses permissions is an invalid result.  If
> anyone is interested in running this, I may be willing to help, but I
> won't pursue this problem any more until the read/write bug is fixed.


Your patch just blindly sets EBADF when the windows error is
ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED.  I am not convinced that this is a correct
solution.

cgf

> > From: "david f" <davidf87@hotmail.com>
> > To: cygwin@cygwin.com
> > CC: davidf87@hotmail.com
> > Subject: write(2) return codes
> > Date: Wed, 01 May 2002 13:17:01 -0700
> >
> > I've been doing some work on porting gnome to run on cygwin. One problem 
> > which I recently discovered in testing bonobo is that the write(2) system 
> > call seems to return the EACCES in the case where it should return EBADF. 
> > Here is a piece of code which demonstrates it:
> >
> > ```
> > #include <unistd.h>
> > #include <stdio.h>
> > #include <fcntl.h>
> > #include <errno.h>
> > ```
> >
> > main () {
> > int fd = open("/tmp/test1", O_RDONLY);
> > int ret = write(fd, "foo", 3);
> > fprintf(stderr,"%d\n", errno);
> > }
> >
> > And the strace output from it
> >
> >  98  342468 [main] a 4016 _open: 3 = open (/tmp/test1, 0x0)
> > 125  342593 [main] a 4016 _write: write (3, 0x40104F, 3)
> > 104  342697 [main] a 4016 fhandler_base::write: binary write
> > 119  342816 [main] a 4016 seterrno_from_win_error: 
> > /cygnus/netrel/src/cygwin-1.3.10-1/winsup/cygwin/fhandler.cc:279 errno 5
> > 102  342918 [main] a 4016 geterrno_from_win_error: windows error 5 == 
> > errno 13
> > ```
> >  95  343013 [main] a 4016 fhandler_base::write: -1 = write (0x40104F, 3)
> >  95  343108 [main] a 4016 _write: -1 = write (3, 0x40104F, 3)
> >
> > ```
> >
> > Note that windows returns error code 5, access denied, which is mapped on 
> > to EACCES. Bonobo expects either EBADF (which solaris returns in this case) 
> >
> > or EINVAL.
> >
> > Perhaps the single global error map is not the right approach. It is 
> > clearly not the correct behavior to always map windows ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED 
> > on to either EACCES or EBADF.
> >
> > I'm not a cygwin hacker, but I'll make a patch if there is some consensus 
> > on how to fix this. There also used to be tools for testing POSIX 
> > compliance that might catch some other cases of this, but I don't have any 
> > info on that at the moment.
> >
> > Please CC me on any mail, as I'm not on the mailing list.
> >
> >
> > Thanks,
> >
> >
> > David F
> >
> > > From: Steven O'Brien To: "david f" <davidf87@hotmail.com>
> > > Subject: Re: bonobo and gal patches
> > > Date: Wed, 1 May 2002 19:24:08 +0100
> > >
> > > Hi David
> > > I've had a look at SUSv2 which is the first reference point for cygwin,
> > > and definitely in that specification write() *never* sets errno EACCESS.
> > > I think EBADF, as used by solaris, is the correct errno according to
> > > SUSv2. You may want to raise this on the cygwin mailing listl certainly
> > > if you submit a patch there is a reasonable chance of it being accepted,
> > > given cygwin's aim of susv2 compliance whereever sensible and practical.
> > > A quick google search of the cygwin site for EACCESS does not show up
> > > anything. In the meantime I would put a #ifdef __CYGWIN__ conditional in
> > > the bonobo source to get the desired behaviour.
> > >
> > > Steven
> > >
> > > On Wed, 01 May 2002 10:52:22 -0700
> > > "david f" <davidf87@hotmail.com> wrote:
> > >
> > > > Hi,
> > > >
> > > > Thanks for the patches. I haven't tested the gal patches yet, but the
> > > > bonobo patch is definitely an improvement over my first attempt.
> > > >
> > > > I have investigated the cause of the failure of the 1st test in
> > > > bonobo, and I now have a partial answer. The fragment of the test that
> > > > fails is a write to a file opened read-only. Bonobo expects this to
> > > > return EBADF or EINVAL, but cygwin returns EACCES. I've attached a
> > > > piece of strace output from a simple test case I wrote. Note the
> > > > geterrno_from_win_error returns error code 5, which is
> > > > "5L    ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED                   Access is denied."
> > > > according to MS. This is mapped on to EACCES.
> > > >
> > > > This is annoying, but it is not clear to me whether this should be
> > > > fixed in cygwin or bonobo. Ideally, cygwin should return EBADF or
> > > > EINVAL depending on whatever POSIX says (solaris seems to return
> > > > EBADF), but maybe windows should return ERROR_INVALID_HANDLE instead
> > > > of ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED. If we fix this in bonobo, we'll probably run
> > > > into this again. Maybe cygwin shouldn't map error codes from windows
> > > > to unix on global basis, and provide function-specific mappings for
> > > > greater compatibility.
> > > >
> > > > If you have any insight here let me know. I have only just realized
> > > > this problem, and perhaps there has already been some discussion of
> > > > this problem on cygwin mailing lists.
> > > >
> > > > Dave
> > > >
> > > > > From: Steven O'Brien <steven.obrien2@ntlworld.com>
> > > > > To: davidf87@hotmail.com
> > > > > Subject: bonobo and gal patches
> > > > > Date: Sat, 27 Apr 2002 13:55:16 +0100
> > > > >
> > > > > David
> > > > > Here are the 2 patches I promised you. As I said, bonobo test1 is
> > > > > failing with a permission denied exception, and I have only tried
> > > > > "make check", not run any other test program.
> > > > > Gal does not perform so well in its tests, but it should give you a
> > > > > start. Steven
> > > > > ```
> > > > > << bonobo-1.0.20-cygwin.patch >>
> > > > > << gal-0.19.1-cygwin.patch >>
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > _________________________________________________________________
> > > > Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at
> > > > http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp.
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
>
>
>
> _________________________________________________________________
> Send and receive Hotmail on your mobile device: http://mobile.msn.com
>
> diff -ur cygwin-1.3.10-1.orig/winsup/cygwin/fhandler.cc 
> cygwin-1.3.10-1/winsup/cygwin/fhandler.cc
> ```diff
> --- cygwin-1.3.10-1.orig/winsup/cygwin/fhandler.cc	Tue Feb 19 19:25:00 2002
> +++ cygwin-1.3.10-1/winsup/cygwin/fhandler.cc	Wed May  8 17:08:54 2002
> @@ -241,6 +241,11 @@
> ```
>
> ```
> 	  /* This is really EOF.  */
> 	  bytes_read = 0;
> 	  break;
> ```
>
> ```
> +        case ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED:
> +          /* Windows returns this when reading from a file opened O_WRONLY,
> +             but POSIX expects EBADF. */
> +          set_errno(EBADF);
> ```
>
> ```
> +          return -1;
> 	case ERROR_MORE_DATA:
> 	  /* `bytes_read' is supposedly valid.  */
> 	  break;
> ```
>
> ```diff
> @@ -614,6 +619,11 @@
> ```
>
> ```
> 		  __seterrno ();
> 		  if (get_errno () == EPIPE)
> 		    raise (SIGPIPE);
> ```
>
> ```diff
> +                  /* Windows returns E_ACCESS_DENIED when writing to a file
> +                     opened with O_RDONLY, but POSIX expects EBADF. */
> +		  if (get_errno () == EACCES) {
> +                    set_errno(EBADF);
> +                  }
> ```
>
> ```
> 		  /* This might fail, but it's the best we can hope for */
> 		  SetFilePointer (get_handle (), current_position, 0, FILE_BEGIN);
> 		  return -1;
>
> ```
>
>
>
> --
> Unsubscribe info:      http://cygwin.com/ml/#unsubscribe-simple
> Bug reporting:         http://cygwin.com/bugs.html
> Documentation:         http://cygwin.com/docs.html
> FAQ:                   http://cygwin.com/faq/



