# /proc improvements

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris January <chris@atomice.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-05-09T16:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [05cd01c1f7b1$aa451250$0100a8c0@advent02](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/05cd01c1f7b1$aa451250$0100a8c0@advent02) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/05/09/16-28-00)

This is first of two patches adding a number of extra files to the /proc
virtual file system.
The main aim of this patch was to add compatibility with the procps tools,
which has been achieved. Specifically, both top and ps are working.
A lot of the process-specific information and some global information is
only available on Windows NT. This isn't because I'm mean, but simply
because I know no way of retrieving this information under Windows 95/98/me.
In fact the operating system doesn't bother recording most of the
information required.
Please test extensively. I've only tested it under Windows 2000 and Windows
98. In particular I need to know whether the patch works with NT 4.

Regards
Chris

2002-05-10  Christopher January <chris@atomice.net>

 * autoload.cc: Add dynamic load statements for 'ZwQueryInformationProcess'
 and 'ZwQueryVirtualMemory'.
 * fhandler.h: Change type of bufalloc and filesize members of
 fhandler_virtual from int to size_t.
 Change type of position member from __off32_t to __off64_t.
 Add new fileid member to fhandler_virtual class.
 Make seekdir take an __off64_t argument.
 Make lseek take an __off64_t argument.
 Add fill_filebuf method to fhandler_virtual.
 Add fill_filebuf method to fhandler_proc.
 Add fill_filebuf method to fhandler_registry.
 Add fill_filebuf method to fhandler_process.
 Add saved_pid and saved_p members to fhandler_process.
 * fhandler_proc.cc: Add 'loadavg', 'meminfo', and 'stat' files to
 proc_listing array.
 Add corresponding entries in proc_fhandlers array.
 (fhandler_proc::open): Use fill_filebuf to flesh out the file contents.
 (fhandler_proc::fill_filebuf): New method.
 (fhandler_proc::format_proc_meminfo): Ditto.
 (fhandler_proc::format_proc_stat): Ditto.
 (fhandler_proc::format_proc_uptime): Ditto.
 * fhandler_process.cc: Add 'stat' and 'statm' files to process_listing
 array.
 (fhandler_process::fstat): Find the _pinfo structure for the process
 named in the filename. Return ENOENT if the process is no longer around.
 Set the gid and uid fields of the stat structure.
 (fhandler_process::open): Store pid and pointer to _pinfo structure in
 saved_pid and saved_p respectively. Use fill_filebuf to flesh out file
 contents.
 (fhandler_proc::fill_filebuf): New method.
 (format_process_stat): New function.
 (format_process_status): Ditto.
 (format_process_statm): Ditto.
 (get_process_state): Ditto.
 (get_mem_values): Ditto.
 * fhandler_registry.cc (fhandler_registry::seekdir): Change argument type
 from __off32_t to __off64_t.
 (fhandler_registry::fill_filebuf): New method.
 * fhandler_virtual.cc (fhandler_virtual::seekdir): Change argument type
 from __off32_t to __off64_t.
 (fhandler_virtual::lseek): Ditto.
 (fhandler_virtual::fill_filebuf): New method.
 (fhandler_virtual::fhandler_virtual): Initialise fileid to -1.
 * wincap.cc: Set flag has_process_io_counters  appropriately.
 * wincap.h: Add flag has_process_io_counters.



---

**Attachments:**

- [proc.patch.4](proc.patch.4) (application)
- [ChangeLog.4.txt](ChangeLog.4.txt) (text)
