# Re: [PATCH 0/3] fix unlink/rename failure in hyper-v container

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Yoshinao Muramatsu <ysno@ac.auone-net.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-03-24T01:40:25+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f82458c2-72be-7485-66da-82b0342ae729@ac.auone-net.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f82458c2-72be-7485-66da-82b0342ae729@ac.auone-net.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/14-43-43.thread.md#:~:text=2023/03/23/16-40-25)

On 2023/03/22 2:58, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> I pushed a new Cygwin DLL, test release 3.5.0-0.251.gfe2545e9faaf.
> This should do what we want, now.  If you can confirm, I'll push
> your workaround afterwards.


I have tested cygwin-3.5.0-0.251.gfe2545e9faaf.
It works fine with bind mounted directory in the hyper-v container.

However, the currently reported FILE_SUPPORTS_POSIX_UNLINK_RENAME
and FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID are different from the
actual behavior and I will report this as a bug at
https://github.com/microsoft/Windows-Containers/issues/341

In the future, I expect that FILE_SUPPORTS_POSIX_UNLINK_RENAME will
be desirable as a check target, but then checking
FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID in gfe2545e9faafd may become harmful.
(in process isolated container,
  posix unlink/rename works but OpenByFileId() not)

At this time, using FILE_SUPPORTS_POSIX_UNLINK_RENAME for
the check would mean the occurrence of additional failures
and subsequent workarounds.
This may be too optimistic, but STATUS_INVALID_PARAMETER is
an error at the parameter check stage, so I expect a small loss
in case of failure. Is the additional cost of unlink/rename failure
due to an incorrect FILE_SUPPORTS_POSIX_UNLINK_RENAME unacceptable?

----

Slightly off-topic, but since I could not use gui to set up cygwin
in the container, I am using setup-x86_64.exe with cli.
Is there a way to install the cygwin package by specifying
the package version from cli?
This time I modified setup.ini and installed with -l -L.

-- 
Yoshinao Muramatsu <ysno@ac.auone-net.jp>


