# Re: [PATCH] winsup/doc/dll.xml: update MinGW/.org to MinGW-w64/.org

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-03-08T23:08:38-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [a4f074eb-f708-0c6d-348c-2216e0af4b96@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/a4f074eb-f708-0c6d-348c-2216e0af4b96@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/16-31-55.thread.md#:~:text=2021/03/09/06-08-38)

On 2021-03-08 13:55, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mar  8 15:20, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On 3/8/2021 2:09 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > > Brian Inglis writes:
> > > > It's normally a merge conflict which will not be satisfied by regular
> > > > commands to restore the working files to upstream.
> > >
> > >
> > > So you're pulling on an unclean work tree?  That's a no-no, either keep
> > > your changes on a separate branch (that you can rebase or merge later)
> > > or stash them away for the pull.
> > >
> > > As Corinna said, if you're prepared to lose any local changes then
> > >
> > > git reset --hard
> > >
> > > will do that.  But you should be sure you really didn't want any of your
> > > unfinished business around any more.
> >
> >
> > If the unfinished business consists of local commits that haven't yet been
> > applied upstream, then I typically do the following:
> >
> > git fetch  # Find out if upstream has changed since my last pull.  If so...
> > git format-patch -n  # save n local commits
> > git reset --hard origin/master
> > git am 00*  # reapply my local commits
>
>
> I'm doing this a bit differently:
>
>    git fetch


I changed to pull origin/master as I always want to get all updates;
Achim suggests remote update

>    git rebase -i origin/master


I've figured out that enough to do your tweaks without hacking patches

> I like git rebase, it's a very nifty tool, especially using the
> interactive mode.


Agreed - I trust myself more using interactive mode commands than gitk

It's been months since I had to wipe and re-clone newlib-cygwin and that's 
saying a lot.

[Thanks for all the help to a git rookie who pled orgs/projects to use/*allow* 
source/version control (often only MS SourceSafe/TeamSource? or cvs) sometimes 
on my own with whatever was/could be installed (Windows Cygwin hg, RHEL/Solaris 
cvs/rcs, Solaris/SunOS sccs/vi).]

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


