# Re: Honor DESTDIR in w32api and mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-18T18:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ADB5F8A.7080902@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ADB5F8A.7080902@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/20-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/18/18-18-00)

Charles Wilson wrote:
> Dave Korn wrote:
> >   Well, I can think of a possible counter-proposal: how about a patch that
> > adds DESTDIR in the normal manner, but only on platforms that support DESTDIR
> > correctly?  This could be done by testing the --host setting in the Makefile
>
>
> Don't you mean the --build setting?  If I'm using a cross-compiler (such
> as, say, gcc3 -mno-cygwin on cygwin, or i686-pc-mingw32-gcc anywhere),
> then so long as my 'make' and 'sh' use posixy paths, I should be ok with
> DESTDIR, right?


  Yes, of course I did.  Thanks.

> This leads to attitudes such as "so what if /src/*/ supports DESTDIR. We
> don't and here's why."  Never mind that this refusal /breaks/ DESTDIR
> support for the entire combined tree, if you're so audacious as to TRY
> to use DESTDIR from a super-directory of src/winsup/mingw/.


  Yes, I think everything that lives in the /src repository should consider
itself obliged to adhere to the common conventions.  If they really find it
onerous, it occurs to me that they could always move mingw sideways - to a
different repository still on the sourceware.org cvs server - and we could
import a mildly-forked version of their packages into winsup just like we
would with any other external library.  That ought to be able to accommodate
everyone's wishes, no?

```
    cheers,
      DaveK
```



