# Re: Honor DESTDIR in w32api and mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Charles Wilson <cygwin@cwilson.fastmail.fm> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-18T19:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ADB6773.3090605@cwilson.fastmail.fm](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ADB6773.3090605@cwilson.fastmail.fm) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/20-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/18/19-07-00)

Dave Korn wrote:
>   Yes, I think everything that lives in the /src repository should consider
> itself obliged to adhere to the common conventions.  If they really find it
> onerous,


Remember, that was just my impression given the current discussion, some
previous ones like the old 2006 argument about Corinna's patches to
"Simplify MinGW canadian crosses", and snarky comments in the repo like
the one I quoted.  Nobody has actually come out and SAID such a thing.

> it occurs to me that they could always move mingw sideways - to a
> different repository still on the sourceware.org cvs server


Meh. There's been continual talk about such reorganization:

http://osdir.com/ml/gnu.mingw.devel/2006-03/msg00013.html
http://www.nabble.com/Putting-GCC-machinery-into-MinGW-CVS-td24187752.html

but little has come of that. Most recently, the mingw website/wiki was
moved to a new provider (not sf), although the lists, CVS (for all but
mingw-runtime and w32api), and file distribution remain at sf -- with
plans to move the file distribution to the new provider eventually, as well.

But AFAIK there are no *current* plans to (a) move the
non-mingwrt/w32api CVS anywhere, or (b) move the lists, or (c) rearrange
the mingwrt/w32api stuff now under src/.

> - and we could
> import a mildly-forked version of their packages into winsup just like we
> would with any other external library.  That ought to be able to accommodate
> everyone's wishes, no?


Well, except for poor Chris Sutcliff. It'd double his workload.

--
Chuck


