# Re: [PATCH] strace: Fix crash caused over-optimization

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Daniel Santos <daniel.santos@pobox.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2017-04-19T15:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [b9c87890-f3f5-7e67-7509-9955f56b412c@pobox.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b9c87890-f3f5-7e67-7509-9955f56b412c@pobox.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/22-23-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/04/19/15-52-00)

On 04/18/2017 05:04 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Apr 17 03:39, Daniel Santos wrote:
>
> > I actually did try that, although I had guessed it wouldn't (and shouldn't)
> > work.  I believe that the reason is that rather the accesses are volatile or
> > not, gcc can see nothing else using it and memset can be a treated as a
> > compiler built-in (per the C spec, maybe C89?), so it can presume the
> > outcome.  If there's a cleaner way to do this, I would really love to learn
> > that.  __attribute__ ((used)) only works on variables with static storage.
> >
> > Now I suspect that I may have found a little bug in gcc, because if I call
> > memset by casting it directly as a volatile function pointer, it is still
> > optimized away, and it should not:
> >
> >    ((void *(*volatile)(void *, int, size_t))memset) (buf, 0, sizeof (buf));
> >
> > And most interestingly, if I first assign a local volatile function pointer
> > to the address, then gcc properly does *not* optimize it away:
> >
> > ```
> >    void *(*volatile vol_memset)(void *, int, size_t) = memset;
> >    vol_memset (buf, 0, sizeof (buf));
> >
> > ```
> >
> > I'm actually really glad for your response and that I played with this
> > because I need to make sure that this problem doesn't exist in gcc7.  I have
> > changes going into gcc8 shortly and this could mask problems from my test
> > program where I cast functions as volatile w/o assigning using a local.
> >
> > Daniel
>
> What about using RtlSecureZeroMemory instead?
>
>
> Corinna


Well that's surprising.  Yes, it does solve the problem and I presume 
would be more portable. :)  It even inlines the "memset", but uses a 
single byte rep stos.  Technically, I think that a double-word stos 
could be used in this case, but I doubt that matters much.

Daniel


