# resend: Re: [PATCH] strace: Fix crash caused over-optimization

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Daniel Santos <daniel.santos@pobox.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2017-04-19T18:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [993a416c-0783-38e3-63a3-cbe0e44aa8b8@pobox.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/993a416c-0783-38e3-63a3-cbe0e44aa8b8@pobox.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/22-23-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/04/19/18-46-00)

sourceware.org decided that I was a spammer for some weird reason... 
Maybe this one will go through...

On 04/19/2017 10:52 AM, MAILER-DAEMON@sourceware.org wrote:
> Hi. This is the qmail-send program at sourceware.org.
> I'm afraid I wasn't able to deliver your message to the following addresses.
> This is a permanent error; I've given up. Sorry it didn't work out.
>
> <cygwin@cygwin.com>:
> Mail rejected: List address must be in To: or Cc: headers.
> See http://sourceware.org/lists.html#sourceware-list-info for more information.
>
> If you are not a "spammer", we apologize for the inconvenience.
> You can add yourself to the cygwin.com "global allow list"
> by sending email *from*the*blocked*email*address* to:
>



-------- Forwarded Message --------
Subject: 	Re: [PATCH] strace: Fix crash caused over-optimization
Date: 	Wed, 19 Apr 2017 10:57:02 -0500
From: 	Daniel Santos <daniel.santos@pobox.com>
To: 	cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, Corinna Vinschen 
<corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com>



On 04/18/2017 05:04 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Apr 17 03:39, Daniel Santos wrote:
>
> > I actually did try that, although I had guessed it wouldn't (and shouldn't)
> > work.  I believe that the reason is that rather the accesses are volatile or
> > not, gcc can see nothing else using it and memset can be a treated as a
> > compiler built-in (per the C spec, maybe C89?), so it can presume the
> > outcome.  If there's a cleaner way to do this, I would really love to learn
> > that.  __attribute__ ((used)) only works on variables with static storage.
> >
> > Now I suspect that I may have found a little bug in gcc, because if I call
> > memset by casting it directly as a volatile function pointer, it is still
> > optimized away, and it should not:
> >
> >    ((void *(*volatile)(void *, int, size_t))memset) (buf, 0, sizeof (buf));
> >
> > And most interestingly, if I first assign a local volatile function pointer
> > to the address, then gcc properly does *not* optimize it away:
> >
> > ```
> >    void *(*volatile vol_memset)(void *, int, size_t) = memset;
> >    vol_memset (buf, 0, sizeof (buf));
> >
> > ```
> >
> > I'm actually really glad for your response and that I played with this
> > because I need to make sure that this problem doesn't exist in gcc7.  I have
> > changes going into gcc8 shortly and this could mask problems from my test
> > program where I cast functions as volatile w/o assigning using a local.
> >
> > Daniel
>
> What about using RtlSecureZeroMemory instead?
>
>
> Corinna


Well that's surprising.  Yes, it does solve the problem and I presume
would be more portable. :)  It even inlines the "memset", but uses a
single byte rep stos.  Technically, I think that a double-word stos
could be used in this case, but I doubt that matters much.

Daniel


