# Re: [Patch] Encode invalid chars in /proc/registry entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-11-16T19:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071116194229.GA9171@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071116194229.GA9171@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/21-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/11/16/19-42-00)

On Fri, Nov 16, 2007 at 08:35:48PM +0100, Christian Franke wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > ..
> > > > Patch is tested with 1.5.24-2. Merge with HEAD looks good, but was not 
> > > > actually tested. Therefore, no changelog provided yet.
> > > >
> > >
> > > Thanks for this patch.  Apart from the missing ChangeLog I'm inclined
> > > to apply it to the upcoming 1.5.25 release, but I don't like to have it
> > > in HEAD as is.
> > >
> >
> >
> > I'm not so sure it's appropriate for either yet.
> >
> > Isn't it possible to use at least some of the managed mode functions
> > which deal with munging characters to do some of encoding?  It seems
> > like the patch duplicates some of the functionality from path.cc.
> >
> > I realize that the registry is sort of the opposite of a managed mount
> > but it seems like the encoding functions might be potentially used in
> > reverse for this.
>
>
> I actually consulted path.cc before starting the patch but did not find
> any function which provides the required functionality OOTB.
> Therefore, I solved the tradeoff between "reuse" and "do not change
> working code if you don't have time for thorough regression testing" by
> the latter :-)


I'm sorry but "reuse" is a fairly important concept in a project like
this.  The proc functions, in particular, have been prone to NIH and I
don't want to see even more there if we can possibly help it.

So, I'll reiterate my suggestion that you look at, e.g.,
mount_item::fnmunge and possibly think about generalizing it if it isn't
quite up to the task.

I'll also go on record as advocating that this not be part of a bugfix
release.  It seems too much like a last minute change to me.

Getting it into cvs main, however, seems like a good idea.

cgf


