# Re: Extending /proc/*/maps

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-11T10:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110511103149.GA11041@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110511103149.GA11041@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/11/10-32-00)

Hi Ryan,

On May 11 01:27, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> Hi all,
>
> Please find attached three patches which extend the functionality of
> /proc/*/maps.


Thanks!

I applied youyr two first patches with a couple of changes:

- Formatting: Setting of curly braces in class and method defintions,
```
  a lot of missing spaces, "int *foo" instead of "int* foo", stuff
  like that.  Please compare what I checked in against your patch. 
  That doesn't mean I always get it right myself, but basically that's
  how it should be.

```

- NT_MAX_PATH is the maximum size of a path including the trailing \0,
  so a buffer size of NT_MAX_PATH + 1 isn't required.

- Please always use sys_wcstombs rather than wcstombs for filenames.

- I replaced the call to GetMappedFileNameEx with a call to
```
  NtQueryVirtualMemory (MemorySectionName).  This avoids to add another
  dependency to psapi.  I intend to get rid of them entirely, if
  possible.

```

> NOTE 1: I do not attempt to identify PEB, TEB, or thread stacks. The
> first could be done easily enough, but the second and third require
> venturing into undocumented/private Windows APIs.


Go ahead!  We certainly don't shy away from calls to
NtQueryInformationProcess or NtQueryInformationThread.

> NOTE 2: If desired, we could easily extend format_process_maps
> further to report section names of mapped images (linux does this
> for .so files), [...]


Sorry if I'm dense, but isn't that exactly what GetMappedFileNameEx or
NtQueryVirtualMemory (MemorySectionName) do?  I also don't see any extra
information for .so files in the Linux maps output.  What detail am I
missing?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


