# Re: Improvements to fork handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ryan Johnson <ryan.johnson@cs.utoronto.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-11T18:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4DCADA31.2090600@cs.utoronto.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4DCADA31.2090600@cs.utoronto.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-21-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/11/18-49-00)

On 11/05/2011 12:16 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, May 11, 2011 at 10:21:14AM -0400, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > On 11/05/2011 10:13 AM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Wed, May 11, 2011 at 09:59:53AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On May 11 02:18, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > > > > Please find attached five patches [...]
> > > >
> > > > Oops, wrong mailing list...
> > > >
> > > > Btw., it would be nice if you could create patches with the diff -p flag
> > > > as well.  It's not exactly essential, but IMHO it's quite a help when
> > > > trying to review patches.
> > > >
> > > > Another problem is this:  While you provide separate patches, you don't
> > > > provide separate ChangeLogs.  That makes it kind of hard to apply them
> > > > separately.  Would you mind to create one ChangeLog per change?
> > >
> > > Ditto.  This really needs to be broken down into easier to review chunks.
> >
> > All right. Let's try this again with the correct mailing list.
> >
> > The patches have been generated with diff -p, and each includes
> > appropriate changelog entries. Hopefully the changes are split up finely
> > enough because I don't know a good way to break them down any further.
> >
> > For posterity's sake I'm including the original message body below.
>
> Please: One patch per message.  One ChangeLog entry per message, not
> sent as a diff.

Done. Please disregard the older (bundled) versions because I found a 
couple of glitches in the patches which the the 1-per-email set fixes.

Ryan


