# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck -s should not imply -d

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-01-11T08:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110111081043.GB8899@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110111081043.GB8899@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/19-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/01/11/08-11-00)

On Jan 10 12:52, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Jan 10, 2011 at 01:51:02PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan  5 19:50, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > >
> > > Currently, for cygcheck -s implies -d.  This seems rather unhelpful.
> > >
> > > I'm afraid I've lost the thread which inspired this, but in it the reporter
> > > provided cygcheck -svr output as requested, but this did not help diagnose
> > > what ultimately turned out to be the problem, that a DLL was actually an older
> > > version (presumably due to replace-in-use problems)
> > >
> > > Attached a patch to modify cygcheck so -s no longer implies -d (although -d
> > > can still be used).
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > 2011-01-05  Jon TURNEY
> > >
> > > 	* cygcheck.cc (main): don't imply -d from -s option to cygcheck
> >
> >
> > Looks good to me.  Applied.
>
>
> Sorry that I didn't reply to this.  I wasn't 100% convinced that this
> was a good idea since some of the packages show up as having problems
> when they are ok.  I was wondering if that would end up generating more
> (understandably) confused mailing list traffic but I guess, in the end,
> it probably is better to check the validity of the packages for the
> prescribed error reporting technique.


I wasn't quite sure either, but while running cygcheck with Jon's patch
it started to make more sense.  We can also change the docs to ask for
`cygcheck -svrd' output, but I guess we should just wait and see.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


