# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck -s should not imply -d

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon TURNEY <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-01-11T14:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4D2C688E.9080204@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4D2C688E.9080204@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/19-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/01/11/14-26-00)

On 11/01/2011 08:10, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 10 12:52, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Jan 10, 2011 at 01:51:02PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jan  5 19:50, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Currently, for cygcheck -s implies -d.  This seems rather unhelpful.
> > > >
> > > > I'm afraid I've lost the thread which inspired this, but in it the reporter
> > > > provided cygcheck -svr output as requested, but this did not help diagnose
> > > > what ultimately turned out to be the problem, that a DLL was actually an older
> > > > version (presumably due to replace-in-use problems)
> > > >
> > > > Attached a patch to modify cygcheck so -s no longer implies -d (although -d
> > > > can still be used).
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > 2011-01-05  Jon TURNEY
> > > >
> > > > 	* cygcheck.cc (main): don't imply -d from -s option to cygcheck
> > >
> > >
> > > Looks good to me.  Applied.
> >
> >
> > Sorry that I didn't reply to this.  I wasn't 100% convinced that this
> > was a good idea since some of the packages show up as having problems
> > when they are ok.  I was wondering if that would end up generating more
> > (understandably) confused mailing list traffic but I guess, in the end,
> > it probably is better to check the validity of the packages for the
> > prescribed error reporting technique.
>
>
> I wasn't quite sure either, but while running cygcheck with Jon's patch
> it started to make more sense.  We can also change the docs to ask for
> `cygcheck -svrd' output, but I guess we should just wait and see.


FWIW (I don't have all packages installed), mutt is the only package I have
installed for which cygcheck -c falsely reports a problem.

$ cygcheck -c | grep -v OK
Cygwin Package Information
Package                        Version                  Status
mutt                           1.5.20-1                 Incomplete

Would a patch to http://cygwin.com/setup.html be welcome recommending that:
(a) if a package installs files which a user is expected to customize, don't
trample over those customizations when the package is upgraded/reinstalled
(b) a package should verify as correctly installed with cygcheck -c?


