# RE: [PATCH] Update 2 - Setup.exe property sheet patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gary R Van Sickle <tiberius@braemarinc.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-12-20T12:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011220122200.k-KtlpmHyJC0dh-NrqiuFuqbg6a1mtlBE42wxHFidaM@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011220122200.k-KtlpmHyJC0dh-NrqiuFuqbg6a1mtlBE42wxHFidaM@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/08/05-19-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/12/20/12-22-00)

> Having had a good close look, there is a little more that is needed
> before committing to CVS.
>
> 1) You've skipped at least one dialog - IDD_S_FROM_CWD - which is what
> was breaking local_dir.


Ok, I'll get that fixed tonight.

> (Oh, and the functions weren't virtual in some
> child classes :}).


"Once virtual, always virtual", i.e., it isn't necessary to add "virtual" to
any overridden virtual functions, and in fact it's not possible to
"unvirtualize" once virtualized.  I do try to maintain them as a stylistic
convention, but even I fall short sometimes ;-).  Thanks for patching that.

> 2) See download.cc - is next_dialog still used, and should a
> fail result
> in the previous behaviour?
>


I believe it is still used in a few places (some of the "do_xxx"'s).  That
whole mechanism is one of the next things to go.  As far as behavior is
concerned, I'm trying hard to specifically *not* change any at this point,
but simply to get the new property page and class foundation laid ("simply"
he sez ;-)).  So you're saying that a download failure isn't being handled
properly?

> I've attached an updated patch for you with the virtual functions
> actually still virtual.
>


Thanks, and thanks for running it through indent.  It looks all GNUey now
;-).

> Rob
>


--
Gary R. Van Sickle
Braemar Inc.
11481 Rupp Dr.
Burnsville, MN 55337


