# Re: [PATCH] Update 2 - Setup.exe property sheet patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Gary R Van Sickle <tiberius@braemarinc.com>, cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-12-20T13:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011220131700.dZ3uoojBIjrh6ekAHiOaQpSwZQB9F0aFZVD4GA73m5s@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011220131700.dZ3uoojBIjrh6ekAHiOaQpSwZQB9F0aFZVD4GA73m5s@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/08/12-58-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/12/20/13-17-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Gary R Van Sickle" <tiberius@braemarinc.com>
>
> "Once virtual, always virtual", i.e., it isn't necessary to add

"virtual" to
> any overridden virtual functions, and in fact it's not possible to
> "unvirtualize" once virtualized.  I do try to maintain them as a

stylistic
> convention, but even I fall short sometimes ;-).  Thanks for patching

that.

My understanding is that this is not 100% the case. Or more
pedantically - in a class derived from a a class with virtual functions,
those virtual functions wil get overriden, but if not declared virtual
themselves, any further derivations will not. I believe that the
technique of doing this to allow inlining of code calling references to
an object is called 'final classes'.

> > 2) See download.cc - is next_dialog still used, and should a
> > fail result
> > in the previous behaviour?
> >
>
>
> I believe it is still used in a few places (some of the "do_xxx"'s).

That
> whole mechanism is one of the next things to go.  As far as behavior

is
> concerned, I'm trying hard to specifically *not* change any at this

point,
> but simply to get the new property page and class foundation laid

("simply"
> he sez ;-)).  So you're saying that a download failure isn't being

handled
> properly?


I think that 2 things are broken:
1) A local install doesn't.
2) A failure during download may not behave correctly - but I don't
know.

Rob


