# Re: [EXTERNAL] Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: spawn: Treat empty path as the current directory.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2022-06-30T13:03:43-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f766aa3a-6bca-5d6b-50c9-316e87816ea1@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f766aa3a-6bca-5d6b-50c9-316e87816ea1@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../27/12-44-27.thread.md#:~:text=2022/06/30/19-03-43)


On 2022-06-30 12:35, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] via 
Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > However, use of this feature is deprecated, and POSIX notes that a
> > conforming application shall use an explicit pathname (e.g., .)  to
> > specify the current working directory.
>
>
> Since "SHALL" does not mean "MUST", I think this patch is correct.


It appears you may be confusing POSIX's (1.5 Terminology)
*shall* (mandatory) and *should* (recommended):

"*SHALL*

For an implementation that conforms to POSIX.1-2017, describes a feature 
or behavior that is mandatory. An application can rely on the existence 
of the feature or behavior.

For an application or user, describes a behavior that is mandatory.

*SHOULD*

For an implementation that conforms to POSIX.1-2017, describes a feature 
or behavior that is recommended but not mandatory. An application should 
not rely on the existence of the feature or behavior. An application 
that relies on such a feature or behavior cannot be assured to be 
portable across conforming implementations.

For an application, describes a feature or behavior that is recommended 
programming practice for optimum portability."

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


