# Resubmission of cygwin_daemon patch.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-21T06:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [077501c21929$e6e84350$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/077501c21929$e6e84350$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/21/06-43-00)

Rob,

I've put together another patch from the cygwin_daemon branch,
excluding the ipcs(8) changes. In fact, this patch doesn't include any
changes to <sys/ipc.h> or <sys/shm.h>, so a couple of other bug fixes
and enhancements are also excluded, but since the overall patch
doesn't affect the shm code, this seems not unreasonable.

So, it contains the following list of changes, as you requested:

> ```
> * Conditionalize the security code so that cygserver works on non-NT
> platforms.
> * Add definitions of the strace XXX_printf macros to allow code to
> ```
>

use
> these whether it's compiled for the DLL or for the daemon.
> * Several minor C++ related changes: for example, making some

methods
> pure virtual, and adding virtual destructors throughout as required.
> ```
> * Add --version and --help options.
> * Add checking for an existing instance of the daemon to avoid
> ```
>

having
> multiple copies running.
> ```
> * Some more error checking throughout.
>
> * Refactor the client request classes for greater encapsulation and
> ```
>

to
> support variable length requests.


Two notes: I'm assuming that you wanted the client request changes in
the patch so that you could review them; I've also added a newer
version of the "checking for another running daemon" code that
improves on the previous one somewhat (once I found the lightly
documented flag you need to use on the first create of a named pipe to
get such checking).

I hope this is all appropriate. Note that I generated this code from a
plain "cvs diff" rather than from you cvsmkpatch, since I was
excluding some changes on that branch and couldn't see how to achieve
that and use your script. As a side-effect of this, I've had to
include the added file, "woutsup.h" separately, as it's not otherwise
included. (And I didn't want to risk a temporary "cvs add" in HEAD
since I'm only meant to be playing on the branch; obviously if you
wanted and it was okay I could do such a temporary add for this
purpose but it doesn't seem too important.)

Best wishes,

// Conrad



---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog.txt](ChangeLog.txt) (text)
- [cygwin_daemon.patch.bz2](cygwin_daemon.patch.bz2) (application)
- [woutsup.h](woutsup.h) (application)
