# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Keep the denormal-operand exception masked; modify FE_ALL_EXCEPT accordingly.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Houder <houder@xs4all.nl> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-08-15T15:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [447916fc54f9cb8318021dccb6313967@xs4all.nl](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/447916fc54f9cb8318021dccb6313967@xs4all.nl) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/08/15/15-04-00)

On 2018-08-15 16:59, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug 15 16:54, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 15 12:59, J.H. van de Water wrote:
> > > By excluding the denormal-operand exception from FE_ALL_EXCEPT, it will not
> > > be possible anymore to UNmask this exception by means of the API defined by
> > > /usr/include/fenv.h
> > >
> > > Note: terminology has changed since IEEE Std 854-1987; denormalized numbers
> > > are called subnormal numbers nowadays.
> > >
> > > This modification has basically been motivated by the fact that it is also
> > > not possible on Linux to manipulate the denormal-operand exception by means
> > > of the interface as defined by /usr/include/fenv.h. This has been the state
> > > of affairs on Linux since 2001 (Andreas Jaeger).
> > >
> > > The exceptions required by the standard (IEEE Std 754), in case they can be
> > > supported by the implementation, are:
> > > FE_INEXACT, FE_UNDERFLOW, FE_OVERFLOW, FE_DIVBYZERO and FE_INVALID.
> > >
> > > Although it is allowed to define additional exceptions, there is no reason
> > > to support the "denormal-operand exception" in this case (fenv.h), because
> > > the subnormal numbers can be handled almost as fast the normalized numbers
> > > by the hardware of the x86/x86_64 architecture. Said differently, a reason
> > > to trap on the input of subnormal numbers does not exist. At least that is
> > > what William Kahan and others at Intel asserted around 2000.
> > > (that is William Kahan of the K-C-S draft, the precursor to the standard)
> > >
> > > This commit modifies winsup/cygwin/include/fenv.h as follows:
> > >  - redefines FE_ALL_EXCEPT from 0x3f to 0x3d
> > >  - removes the definition for FE_DENORMAL
> > >  - introduces __FE_DENORM (0x2) (enum in Linux also uses __FE_DENORM)
> > >  - introduces FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 (0x3f), i.e. ALL x86/x86_64 FP exceptions
> >
> >
> > Shouldn't FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 be defined locally in fenv.cc only?
> > I don't see that Linux exports that definition.
>
>
> Never mind, I just realize it's underscored so it's internal anyway.


Not withstanding, you were correct in your last message!

Henri


