# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Keep the denormal-operand exception masked; modify FE_ALL_EXCEPT accordingly.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-08-15T15:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20180815152636.GL3747@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20180815152636.GL3747@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/08/15/15-26-00)

On Aug 15 17:01, Houder wrote:
> On 2018-08-15 16:54, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 15 12:59, J.H. van de Water wrote:
> > > By excluding the denormal-operand exception from FE_ALL_EXCEPT, it
> > > will not
> > > be possible anymore to UNmask this exception by means of the API
> > > defined by
> > > /usr/include/fenv.h
> > >
> > > Note: terminology has changed since IEEE Std 854-1987; denormalized
> > > numbers
> > > are called subnormal numbers nowadays.
> > >
> > > This modification has basically been motivated by the fact that it
> > > is also
> > > not possible on Linux to manipulate the denormal-operand exception
> > > by means
> > > of the interface as defined by /usr/include/fenv.h. This has been
> > > the state
> > > of affairs on Linux since 2001 (Andreas Jaeger).
> > >
> > > The exceptions required by the standard (IEEE Std 754), in case they
> > > can be
> > > supported by the implementation, are:
> > > FE_INEXACT, FE_UNDERFLOW, FE_OVERFLOW, FE_DIVBYZERO and FE_INVALID.
> > >
> > > Although it is allowed to define additional exceptions, there is no
> > > reason
> > > to support the "denormal-operand exception" in this case (fenv.h),
> > > because
> > > the subnormal numbers can be handled almost as fast the normalized
> > > numbers
> > > by the hardware of the x86/x86_64 architecture. Said differently, a
> > > reason
> > > to trap on the input of subnormal numbers does not exist. At least
> > > that is
> > > what William Kahan and others at Intel asserted around 2000.
> > > (that is William Kahan of the K-C-S draft, the precursor to the
> > > standard)
> > >
> > > This commit modifies winsup/cygwin/include/fenv.h as follows:
> > >  - redefines FE_ALL_EXCEPT from 0x3f to 0x3d
> > >  - removes the definition for FE_DENORMAL
> > >  - introduces __FE_DENORM (0x2) (enum in Linux also uses __FE_DENORM)
> > >  - introduces FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 (0x3f), i.e. ALL x86/x86_64 FP
> > > exceptions
> >
> >
> > Shouldn't FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 be defined locally in fenv.cc only?
> > I don't see that Linux exports that definition.
>
>
> Ah, Sorry. Do I have to resubmit my patch? Or is it easy enough for you to
> make this modification?


It's easy enough but I'm still mulling over __FE_DENORM.  The glibc
fenv.h header defines it, so I guess we should stick to it.  In that
case it might make sense to revert the original comment and just move
__FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86.

Ok?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
