# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Keep the denormal-operand exception masked; modify FE_ALL_EXCEPT accordingly.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Houder <houder@xs4all.nl> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-08-15T15:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [925b0ec898fda180517a166802b740da@xs4all.nl](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/925b0ec898fda180517a166802b740da@xs4all.nl) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/08/15/15-43-00)

On 2018-08-15 17:26, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug 15 17:01, Houder wrote:
> > On 2018-08-15 16:54, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Aug 15 12:59, J.H. van de Water wrote:
> > > > By excluding the denormal-operand exception from FE_ALL_EXCEPT, it
> > > > will not
> > > > be possible anymore to UNmask this exception by means of the API
> > > > defined by
> > > > /usr/include/fenv.h
> > > >
> > > > Note: terminology has changed since IEEE Std 854-1987; denormalized
> > > > numbers
> > > > are called subnormal numbers nowadays.
> > > >
> > > > This modification has basically been motivated by the fact that it
> > > > is also
> > > > not possible on Linux to manipulate the denormal-operand exception
> > > > by means
> > > > of the interface as defined by /usr/include/fenv.h. This has been
> > > > the state
> > > > of affairs on Linux since 2001 (Andreas Jaeger).
> > > >
> > > > The exceptions required by the standard (IEEE Std 754), in case they
> > > > can be
> > > > supported by the implementation, are:
> > > > FE_INEXACT, FE_UNDERFLOW, FE_OVERFLOW, FE_DIVBYZERO and FE_INVALID.
> > > >
> > > > Although it is allowed to define additional exceptions, there is no
> > > > reason
> > > > to support the "denormal-operand exception" in this case (fenv.h),
> > > > because
> > > > the subnormal numbers can be handled almost as fast the normalized
> > > > numbers
> > > > by the hardware of the x86/x86_64 architecture. Said differently, a
> > > > reason
> > > > to trap on the input of subnormal numbers does not exist. At least
> > > > that is
> > > > what William Kahan and others at Intel asserted around 2000.
> > > > (that is William Kahan of the K-C-S draft, the precursor to the
> > > > standard)
> > > >
> > > > This commit modifies winsup/cygwin/include/fenv.h as follows:
> > > >  - redefines FE_ALL_EXCEPT from 0x3f to 0x3d
> > > >  - removes the definition for FE_DENORMAL
> > > >  - introduces __FE_DENORM (0x2) (enum in Linux also uses __FE_DENORM)
> > > >  - introduces FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 (0x3f), i.e. ALL x86/x86_64 FP
> > > > exceptions
> > >
> > >
> > > Shouldn't FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 be defined locally in fenv.cc only?
> > > I don't see that Linux exports that definition.
> >
> >
> > Ah, Sorry. Do I have to resubmit my patch? Or is it easy enough for 
> > you to
> > make this modification?
>
>
> It's easy enough but I'm still mulling over __FE_DENORM.  The glibc
> fenv.h header defines it, so I guess we should stick to it.  In that
> case it might make sense to revert the original comment and just move
> __FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86.


... uhm, my intention was to remove FE_DENORMAL from fenv.h, because it
is no longer part of the interface.

I should have defined "a mask" in fenv.cc, that would have enabled me to
initialize the MXCSR register (i.e. mask ALL exceptions).

I defined __FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 (and should have defined it as 0x3f).

Basically, there was no reason to define __FE_DENORM (or __FE_DENORMAL),
now that I think it over.

(I needed __FE_DENORM(AL) for testing)

Henri


