# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Keep the denormal-operand exception masked; modify FE_ALL_EXCEPT accordingly.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-08-15T16:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20180815160504.GM3747@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20180815160504.GM3747@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/08/15/16-05-00)

On Aug 15 17:43, Houder wrote:
> On 2018-08-15 17:26, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Aug 15 17:01, Houder wrote:
> > > On 2018-08-15 16:54, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Shouldn't FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 be defined locally in fenv.cc only?
> > > > I don't see that Linux exports that definition.
> > >
> > >
> > > Ah, Sorry. Do I have to resubmit my patch? Or is it easy enough for
> > > you to
> > > make this modification?
> >
> >
> > It's easy enough but I'm still mulling over __FE_DENORM.  The glibc
> > fenv.h header defines it, so I guess we should stick to it.  In that
> > case it might make sense to revert the original comment and just move
> > __FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86.
>
>
> ... uhm, my intention was to remove FE_DENORMAL from fenv.h, because it
> is no longer part of the interface.
>
> I should have defined "a mask" in fenv.cc, that would have enabled me to
> initialize the MXCSR register (i.e. mask ALL exceptions).
>
> I defined __FE_ALL_EXCEPT_X86 (and should have defined it as 0x3f).
>
> Basically, there was no reason to define __FE_DENORM (or __FE_DENORMAL),
> now that I think it over.
>
> (I needed __FE_DENORM(AL) for testing)


I think it's more clear to have the definition, even if only used
locally.  You're using __FE_DENORM in a comment, too.  So I just
moved it to fenv.cc.

Pushed.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
