# Re: Add wrappers for ExitProcess, TerminateProcess

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-06T07:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091006074620.GA13712@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091006074620.GA13712@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/19-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/06/07-46-00)

On Oct  5 23:58, Charles Wilson wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Oct 05, 2009 at 04:49:11PM -0400, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > > hmm...probably
> > > ```
> > >     cygwin_internal (CW_TERMINATE_PROCESS, HANDLE, UINT)
> > >     cygwin_internal (CW_EXIT_PROCESS, UINT)
> > > ```
> > >
> > > right?
> >
> >
> > Do we really have to provide the ability to kill some other process?
> > Maybe we really only need one call with two arguments - one which is the
> > exit value and one which indicates whether to exit with prejudice.
> >
> > cygwin_internal (CW_EXIT_PROCESS, UINT, bool);
> >
> > where the bool argument is true if we want to call TerminateProcess on
> > this process.
>
>
> Fine with me. The two-function version was just a derivative of my
> earlier "just wrap [Exit|Terminate]Process" approach, trying to mimic
> the w32api.
>
> However
>
> by going the cgywin_internal route, there's really no point in slavishly
> following the w32api. And besides, the implementation of
> cygwin_internal(CW_TERMINATE_PROCESS,...) really does nothing special if
> called with a HANDLE to a different process -- you might as well call
> TerminateProcess() itself, in that case.
>
> I'll wait for other comments, before taking any additional action, tho.


I can live with both variations, though I like the one entry point idea
as in `cygwin_internal (CW_EXIT_PROCESS, UINT, bool)'  more.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


