# Re: [PATCH v7 4/5] Cygwin: winsup/doc/posix.xml: SUS V5 POSIX 2024 move or remove dropped entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-23T20:04:26-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [31d21c4d-62f6-44e3-aaa8-9ad4317212fa@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/31d21c4d-62f6-44e3-aaa8-9ad4317212fa@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/17-01-03.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/24/03-04-26)

On 2025-01-23 02:59, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 22 17:37, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 22/01/2025 11:23, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jan 17 10:01, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > Move entries no longer in POSIX from the SUS/POSIX section to
> > > > Deprecated Interfaces section and mark with (SUSv4).
> > > > Remove entries no longer in POSIX from the NOT Implemented section.
> > >
> > >
> > > This looks good, but I just realized that a bunch of functions are
> > > missing.
> > >
> > > > -<sect1 id="std-deprec"><title>Other UNIX system interfaces, not in POSIX.1-2008 or deprecated:</title>
> > > > +<sect1 id="std-deprec"><title>Other UNIX® system interfaces, not in POSIX.1-2024, or deprecated:</title>
> > >
> > >
> > > When I introduced the ACL functions from the abandoned POSIX.1e draft,
> > > I missed to add them to the docs.
> > >
> > > Well, fortunately I'm now noticing this a mere 8 years later... *facepalm*
> > >
> > > Sigh.  I'll create a patch to add them on top of your patches later on.
> > >
> >
> > I happen to notice the other day that we don't mention eaccess() (which the
> > glibc extension euidaccess() is a synonym for) here, which I think belongs
> > in this section.
>
>
> Yay!  I'll add it later together with the POSIX.1e functions.


Hi Corinna,

Do you think it worth checking against symbols found by say:

$ awk '/^\s*#\s*if.*__POSIX_VISIBLE/,/^\s*#\s*endif\s*/' /usr/include/{,*/}*.h | 
wc -lwmcL
     992    4348   34846   34846     113

or a more functional variant to scan the ~164 instances in ~36 files?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


