# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael Haubenwallner <michael.haubenwallner@ssi-schaefer.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-28T14:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [9c38ac1d-4dea-12d4-a63b-6e8ec59b3ae8@ssi-schaefer.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/9c38ac1d-4dea-12d4-a63b-6e8ec59b3ae8@ssi-schaefer.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/28/14-59-00)

Hi Achim,

On 3/27/19 8:59 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> Michael Haubenwallner writes:
> > As far as I understand, rebasing is about touching already installed
> > dlls as well, which would require to restart all Cygwin processes.
> > As the problem is about some dll built during a larger build job,
> > this is not something that feels useful to me.
>
>
> That's exactly why I introduced the "--oblivious" option several years
> ago.  It'll let you rebase a set of DLL while benefitting from the
> rebase database, but not recording them there, so if you later install
> them properly there will be no collision.  I needed this for testing
> newly compiled Perl XS modules, but you seem to have a similar use case.


What I can see so far is that right now there is only one single rebase
database, in /etc/rebase.db.<arch>.

However, my 'installed' dlls are not put into /bin, but into the so called
Gentoo "Prefix", e.g. /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/bin for
example.  Remember that there can be multiple independent instances of Gentoo
Prefix, so recording them all into the host /etc/rebase.db is not an option.

Hence there should be a rebase database per Gentoo Prefix instance, like
/home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/etc/rebase.db.<arch>, to record
my 'installed' dlls, while still loading the /etc/rebase.db.<arch> to avoid
conflicts with cygwin provided dlls.

And how would one explicitly remove specific entries from the rebase database
when dlls get uninstalled (by either package remove or package upgrade)?

Thanks!
/haubi/


