# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-28T15:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [0f0d7cd6-e770-fc32-f28f-817b700e4d87@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0f0d7cd6-e770-fc32-f28f-817b700e4d87@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/28/15-19-00)

On 2019-03-28 08:59, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> Hi Achim,
>
> On 3/27/19 8:59 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > Michael Haubenwallner writes:
> > > As far as I understand, rebasing is about touching already installed
> > > dlls as well, which would require to restart all Cygwin processes.
> > > As the problem is about some dll built during a larger build job,
> > > this is not something that feels useful to me.
> >
> >
> > That's exactly why I introduced the "--oblivious" option several years
> > ago.  It'll let you rebase a set of DLL while benefitting from the
> > rebase database, but not recording them there, so if you later install
> > them properly there will be no collision.  I needed this for testing
> > newly compiled Perl XS modules, but you seem to have a similar use case.
>
>
> What I can see so far is that right now there is only one single rebase
> database, in /etc/rebase.db.<arch>.
>
> However, my 'installed' dlls are not put into /bin, but into the so called
> Gentoo "Prefix", e.g. /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/bin for
> example.  Remember that there can be multiple independent instances of Gentoo
> Prefix, so recording them all into the host /etc/rebase.db is not an option.
>
> Hence there should be a rebase database per Gentoo Prefix instance, like
> /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/etc/rebase.db.<arch>, to record
> my 'installed' dlls, while still loading the /etc/rebase.db.<arch> to avoid
> conflicts with cygwin provided dlls.
>
> And how would one explicitly remove specific entries from the rebase database
> when dlls get uninstalled (by either package remove or package upgrade)?


Using rebase -O, --oblivious with -T, --filelist local-test-rebase-db gives you
your own local test rebase db - just add all your test dlls into it (sort -u to
eliminate dups).

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


