# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-28T15:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20190328153636.GS4096@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20190328153636.GS4096@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/28/15-36-00)

On Mar 28 16:02, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> On 3/28/19 10:15 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar 28 09:34, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > Hi Corinna,
> > >
> > > On 3/27/19 10:16 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Mar 27 09:26, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > > On 3/26/19 7:28 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Wait, let me understand what's going on.  IIUC you're building DLLs
> > > > which are then used during the build job itself, right?
> > >
> > >
> > > Exactly.
> > > FWIW, the CI builds also set up a Cygwin instance from scratch,
> > > as I'm also after testing Cygwin (v3) itself to some degree:
> > > https://dev.azure.com/gentoo-prefix/ci-builds/_build
> > >
> > > However, I've not found a commandline option for setup.exe to install
> > > "test" versions...
> > >
> > > > As you know, 64 bit has a defined memory layout.  Binutils ld is
> > > > supposed to base the DLLs to a pseudo-random address in the area between
> > > > 0x4:00000000 and 0x6:00000000.  This area is occupied by un-rebased DLLs
> > > > only.  8 Gigs is a *lot* of space for DLLs.
> > > >
> > > > That also means that the DLLs should not at all collide with windows
> > > > objects (typically reserved in the lesser 2 Gigs area), unless they
> > > > collide with themselves.  At least that's the idea.
> > > >
> > > > Can you check what addresses the freshly built DLLs are based on by LD?
> > > > Is there a chance that the algorithm used in LD is too dumb?
> > >
> > >
> > > I've also added system_printf to dll_list::reserve_space() when a dynloaded
> > > dll was relocated, and each new address was below 0x0:01000000. The attached
> > > output also contains the preferred address, above 0x4:00000000 each.
> >
> >
> > Do they actually collide with each other?  Did you check the addresses?
>
>
> Yes, there is a real collision between installed dlls:
> $ rebase -i /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/bin/cygcrypto-1.1.dll /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/lib/python2.7/lib-dynload/_locale.dll
> ```
> /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/bin/cygcrypto-1.1.dll                 base 0x00041c650000 size 0x0027d000 *
> /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/lib/python2.7/lib-dynload/_locale.dll base 0x00041c6a0000 size 0x0002c000 *
> ```
>


Oh well, it would be nice if ld's hash algorithm would spread out DLLs
better in the 8 Gigs space.

> Is the cygwin1.dll from master branch available via setup.exe cmdline somehow?


No, only from the snapshot page.  I release a 3.0.5 soon, but 3.1 will
be dev-only for a while.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
