# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael Haubenwallner <michael.haubenwallner@ssi-schaefer.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-28T16:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [f5ab5a82-8d26-4898-7ea4-ecef5c377299@ssi-schaefer.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f5ab5a82-8d26-4898-7ea4-ecef5c377299@ssi-schaefer.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/28/16-48-00)

On 3/28/19 4:19 PM, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2019-03-28 08:59, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > On 3/27/19 8:59 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > > Michael Haubenwallner writes:
> > > > As far as I understand, rebasing is about touching already installed
> > > > dlls as well, which would require to restart all Cygwin processes.
> > > > As the problem is about some dll built during a larger build job,
> > > > this is not something that feels useful to me.
> > >
> > >
> > > That's exactly why I introduced the "--oblivious" option several years
> > > ago.  It'll let you rebase a set of DLL while benefitting from the
> > > rebase database, but not recording them there, so if you later install
> > > them properly there will be no collision.  I needed this for testing
> > > newly compiled Perl XS modules, but you seem to have a similar use case.
> >
> >
> > What I can see so far is that right now there is only one single rebase
> > database, in /etc/rebase.db.<arch>.
> >
> > However, my 'installed' dlls are not put into /bin, but into the so called
> > Gentoo "Prefix", e.g. /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/usr/bin for
> > example.  Remember that there can be multiple independent instances of Gentoo
> > Prefix, so recording them all into the host /etc/rebase.db is not an option.
> >
> > Hence there should be a rebase database per Gentoo Prefix instance, like
> > /home/haubi/test-20190327/gentoo-prefix/etc/rebase.db.<arch>, to record
> > my 'installed' dlls, while still loading the /etc/rebase.db.<arch> to avoid
> > conflicts with cygwin provided dlls.
> >
> > And how would one explicitly remove specific entries from the rebase database
> > when dlls get uninstalled (by either package remove or package upgrade)?
>
>
> Using rebase -O, --oblivious with -T, --filelist local-test-rebase-db gives you
> your own local test rebase db - just add all your test dlls into it (sort -u to
> eliminate dups).


Sounds interesting... but something I must be doing wrong here:


```
$ rebase --oblivious --filelist=my-dlls.txt local-test-rebase-db
local-test-rebase-db: skipped because nonexistent.

$ touch local-test-rebase-db
```


```
$ rebase --oblivious --filelist=my-dlls.txt local-test-rebase-db
local-test-rebase-db: skipped because not rebaseable

$ cp /etc/rebase.db.x86_64 local-test-rebase-db
```


$ rebase --oblivious --filelist=my-dlls.txt local-test-rebase-db
local-test-rebase-db: skipped because not rebaseable


It doesn't want to create or update the local-test-rebase-db file...

Thanks!
/haubi/


