# Re: [PATCH 1/4] dlopen: switch to new pathfinder class

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael Haubenwallner <michael.haubenwallner@ssi-schaefer.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-09-09T08:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [904e027a-f657-29c7-18bf-4695543798c8@ssi-schaefer.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/904e027a-f657-29c7-18bf-4695543798c8@ssi-schaefer.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/31/18-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/09/09/08-19-00)

On 09/08/2016 01:58 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sep  2 13:36, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > On 09/02/2016 10:52 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Sep  2 10:05, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > Moving the allocator into pathfinder would work then, but still the
> > > > tmp_pathbuf instance to use has to be provided as reference.
> > >
> > >
> > > Hmm, considering that a function calling your pathfinder *might*
> > > need a tmp_pathbuf for its own dubious purposes, this makes sense.
> > > That could be easily handled via the constructor I think:
> > >
> > > ```
> > >   tmp_pathbuf tp;
> > >   pathfinder finder (tp);
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > Still, since I said I'm willing to take this code as is, do you want me
> > > to apply it this way for now or do you want to come up with the proposed
> > > changes first?
> >
> >
> > As I do prefer both pathfinder and vstrlist to not know about tmp_pathbuf
> > in particular but a generic memory provider only: Yes, please apply as is.
>
>
> Done, minus patch 4.


Then my original problem with dlopen isn't fixed yet, where some application
code within /opt/app/bin/app.exe does dlopen(libAPP.dll), currently finding
/usr/bin/libAPP.dll although app.exe linked against /opt/app/bin/libAPP.dll.

However, thank you anyway!

> I still think that there should be only a single
> pathfinder object and the rest encapsulated within and called via some
> pathfinder member function.  I'll look into it later this year.


A thought to avoid the extra tmp_pathbuf_allocator class:
Have cygmalloc.h (or similar) declare the allocator interface,
to allow for tmp_pathbuf to implement it by itself.

The complete idea is to have another allocator implementation using
cmalloc+cfree, as well as one more using malloc+free. Probably there
is use for another one using VirtualAlloc+VirtualFree as well.

Then even path_conv might utilize the allocator interface, using the
cmalloc+cfree implementation (provided by cygmalloc.h) by default...

/haubi/


