# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: signal: Do not handle signal when __SIGFLUSHFAST is sent

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-19T17:41:27+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250119174127.562dc06aaac5fdf3d8a9d38e@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250119174127.562dc06aaac5fdf3d8a9d38e@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2024/12/23/01-33-25.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/19/08-41-27)

On Sat, 18 Jan 2025 19:24:51 -0800 (PST)
Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> wrote:

> On Sun, 19 Jan 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:
>
> > Thanks for pointing out this. You are right if othre threads may
> > set current_sig to non-zero value. Current cygwin sets current_sig
> > to non-zero only in
> > _cygtls::interrupt_setup()
> > and
> > _cygtls::handle_SIGCONT()
> > both are called from sigpacket::process() as follows.
> >
> > wait_sig()->
> > ```
> >  sigpacket::process() +-> sigpacket::setup_handler() -> _cygtls::interrupt_setup()
> >                       \-> _cygtls::handle_SIGCONT()
> >
> > ```
> >
> > wait_sig() is a thread which handle received signals, so other
> > threads than wait_sig() thread do not set the current_sig to non-zero.
> > That is, other threads set current_sig only to zero. Therefore,
> > I think we don't have to guard checking current_sig value by lock.
> > The only thing we shoud guard is the following case.
> >
> > [wait_sig()]               [another thread]
> > current_sig = SIGCONT;
> >                            current_sig = 0;
> > set_signal_arrived();
> >
> > So, we should place current_sig = SIGCONT and set_signal_arrived()
> > inside the lock.
> >
>
>
> OK, that makes sense.
>
> > As for volatile, personally, I have never had any problems by
> > not marking variables that are accessed by multiple threads as
> > volatile. Do you have any example that causes problem due to
> > lack of volatile other than, say, hardware registers?
>
>
> After I sent that, I realized that it should be fine - yield calls Sleep
> which is an external function, and I think the compiler cannot know that
> it doesn't modify the variable.
>
> The thing I think volatile protects against is if you didn't do
> something that could "clobber memory" in __asm__ speak:
>
> while (sig == SIGCONT)
>   __asm__ ("pause":::);
>
> then the compiler could load the value into a register and just check the
> register rather than re-loading from memory each time through the loop.
> And at that point, just optimize it into an infinite loop.  Either calling
> an external function or making sig volatile would fix that.  I was playing
> with https://gcc.godbolt.org/z/f49vsecYe you can see the effects of making
> mem volatile are the same as having Sleep be a function the compiler
> cannot inline.


Ah, I was wrong. Following code needs volatile for "int a" as you pointed out.

#include <pthread.h>
int a = 0;
void *func(void *arg)
{
```
	a = 1;
	return NULL;
```

}

int main()
{
```
	pthread_t th;
	pthread_create(&th, NULL, func, NULL);
	while (a == 0) ;
	pthread_join(th, NULL);
	return 0;
```

}


-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


