# Re: cygwin_daemon merge

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-09-22T17:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020923002626.GB21327@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020923002626.GB21327@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/12-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/22/17-26-00)

On Sun, Sep 22, 2002 at 11:01:58PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
> > Btw, I forgot to mention that the ChangeLog dates should all reflect
> > the checkin time.  I have just changed them to today's date.
> >
> > Also, maybe you already did this, but for future reference, the
> > ChangeLogs should reflect changes to the mainline.  If there was a lot
> > of churning on the branch, it shouldn't be reflected in the mainline
> > ChangeLog, since the mainline only sees the end result.
>
>
> Thanks for patching the dates for me and sorry for the bother.


No problem.  It's not like the rules are actually written down anywhere.
As you can see, I only remember some of this when I actually see stuff
checked in.  FWIW, much of what I do in Cygwin comes from being told the
rules in gdb or gcc when I screwed something up over there.

The "use the date of checkin" is a case in point.

> I just followed the example of one of the previous merges that I found
> in the archives, but I did wonder whether I'd done the right thing with
> the ChangeLog (I just copied across all the entries from the branch w/o
> altering them).  I'll go through it some point in the next couple of
> days and see if I can slim it down to better reflect the final result,
> since there certainly was quite a lot of churn at one point. I'll aim to
> do more frequent merges in future now that I've got the hang of it; that
> should make the process rather easier too.


I really don't think it is worth your time to clean this up.

Is there any reason why you can't continue development on the mainline
now?

cgf


