# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-07-17T19:04:30+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [9323a02d-753b-6cb3-c996-9d86f379bc21@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/9323a02d-753b-6cb3-c996-9d86f379bc21@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/17/17-04-30)

Hi Jeremy,

On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Jeremy Drake wrote:

> On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
>
> > fix by a regression test in `winsup/testsuite/`?
> >
> > For several days, I tried to find a way to reproduce a way to reproduce
> > the SSH hang using combinations of Cygwin programs and MINGW
> > programs/Node.JS scripts and did not find any. FWIW I don't think that
> > MINGW programs or Node.JS scripts would be allowed in the test suite,
> > anyway, but I wanted to see whether I could replicate the conditions
> > necessary for the hang without resorting to SSH and `git.exe` _at all_.
>
>
> Technically, there is a mingw directory of the testsuite that builds
> executables with the cross mingw compiler.  I recently added a test that
> spawns a mingw program built from that directory.


Yes, I saw that you were working on MINGW-compiled stuff in the test
suite.

My problem is that I was unable to reproduce the issue short of standing
up a full-fledged SSH daemon and using Git for Windows to clone via
Cygwin's `ssh.exe`. I did essentially something like this in
https://github.com/git-for-windows/msys2-runtime/pull/105, which is really
not ideal (integration tests open the door for problems to contribute to
test failures which are outside of the project's control, something I was
loathe to do).

> There's also the new "STC" repository that also runs in CI, that seems
> to be more intended for regression tests, but that doesn't have any mingw
> builds yet.


Oh, you mean the stress tests? From my work in the Git project, I probably
mistook them for something they are not (I expected them to run the same
tests concurrently to increase the chances of flakes to break the tests).

Ciao,
Johannes


