# Re: [PATCH] winsup/doc/dll.xml: update MinGW/.org to MinGW-w64/.org

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-03-08T10:32:54-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b62c52a0-fee4-4cc4-bb57-e16169239d9a@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b62c52a0-fee4-4cc4-bb57-e16169239d9a@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/16-31-55.thread.md#:~:text=2021/03/08/17-32-54)

On 2021-03-08 03:14, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mar  7 13:26, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2021-03-07 12:15, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 07/03/2021 16:31, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > ```
> > > >    winsup/doc/dll.xml | 5 +++--
> > > >    1 file changed, 3 insertions(+), 2 deletions(-)
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think the link here actually has much value, and would be
> > > inclined to drop it, as far as I can tell it's just giving that as an
> > > example of a toolchain which produces 'lib'-prefixed DLLs.
> > >
> > > Also, reading the whole page, the section "Linking against DLLs" needs
> > > updating since GNU ld has had the ability to link directly against DLLs
> > > (automatically generating the necessary import stubs) for a number of
> > > years.
> > >
> > > Also, there are other mentions of MinGW.org on the cygwin website (e.g.
> > > https://cygwin.com/links.html) which also need updating, if that URL is
> > > no longer valid.
> >
> >
> > I checked the tree and Corinna cleaned up some a few years ago.
> >
> > I already checked winsup/doc/ and there were no other substantive uses of
> > MinGW unless you would prefer *ALL* mentions of MinGW be suffixed with -w64.
> >
> > I did not look closely at cygwin-htdocs, as git complained when I tried to
> > update, so I wiped that repo,
>
>
> If git complained, your repo was just not in the latets state.
> Maybe just using `git reset --hard origin/master' would have fixed it.


Thanks - I'll try to remember to try that - on a pull conflict I normally try to 
checkout -- file(s), then -f, then origin/master, then plus -f, with status 
checks between, then commit -m merge when required, and re-pull origin/master to 
check resynced to upstream remote.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


