# Re: ChangeLog indentation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-09T20:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020410033856.GE23551@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020410033856.GE23551@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/09/20-39-00)

On Wed, Apr 10, 2002 at 11:15:16AM +0800, Wu Yongwei wrote:
> Sorry for disturbing you guys.  But for the sake of saving all newbies
> from my troubles, should we state clearly the requirements of
> ChangeLog?  To say the truth, I am still a little puzzled.  The GNU
> ChangeLog Standards page quoted on http://cygwin.com/contrib.html does
> not use any indentation at all.


No, you do not find any unindented entries in the ChangeLog.

Why do I get the feeling that you are not actually reading the ChangeLog
file?  We're talking about a *file* here.  There is a ChangeLog file
in many of the subdirectories of winsup.  Haven't you ever done an
'ls' for crying out loud?

The ChangeLog file has nothing to do with CVS.  Look at the *FILE*,
not CVS log entries.

You have a multitude of examples to draw from and you're still getting
it wrong.  I don't think that adding more words to the web site will
help.  In 99% of the cases the mistakes that people make are mentioned
on the web site already.

If words could help, then repeatedly telling you to look at the file
would have helped a long time ago.  Telling you that ChangeLogs have
nothing to do with CVS would also have worked.  Telling you to look
at the archives would have also been a strong clue.

I don't mind so much if the entries are strangely indented due to
brainddead mailers (although I really think you should use a new mailer
if that is the case) but this miscommunication is really getting old.

cgf


