# Re: ChangeLog indentation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Wu Yongwei <adah@netstd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-09T21:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [000501c1e047$9eba3db0$0610a8c0@wyw](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/000501c1e047$9eba3db0$0610a8c0@wyw) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](21-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/09/21-24-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Wu Yongwei" <adah@netstd.com>
To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 10, 2002 11:15 AM
Subject: ChangeLog indentation


> Sorry for disturbing you guys. But for the sake of saving all newbies from
> my troubles, should we state clearly the requirements of ChangeLog? To say
> the truth, I am still a little puzzled. The GNU ChangeLog Standards page
> quoted on http://cygwin.com/contrib.html does not use any indentation at
> all. And when I browse the ChangeLog on the Cygwin site, I found entries
> with both indentation and not -- the problem with Web page, say,
> http://sources.redhat.com/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/src/winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog?cvsroot=src,
> but not the ChangeLog itself. But it is still confusing.


I have said clearly that the Web pages do not always have indentation. The ChangeLog FILE is OK.
You are completely right about that, but what I said was that it is CONFUSING. And the quoted
"GNU ChangeLog Standards" do not use indentation, either. Am I not clear enough?

And do you assume everybody has the complete Cygwin source files at hand? Sorry but I don't. I
even can't since I am behind a firewall and can only access the most current files by Web.

And I think it is better to have a more complete patch-writing guidelines than to correct me
again and again. Telling people to "model" just ain't enough. Better documentation and/or
training will do. I have seen enough programmers fail to model good examples.

>
> And it seems my current mailer does not support inserting TABs.    :-(
> Maybe I need to use others when submitting a patch.


I will use Netscape instead of Outlook Express when submitting a patch. Again, except for your
previous message I see nowhere mentioning the TABs.

Best regards,

Wu Yongwei

```diff
--- Original Message from Christopher Faylor ---

```

No, you do not find any unindented entries in the ChangeLog.

[...]


