# Re: [Setup] [Patch] New Views for Skipped Packages and Installed Packages (keeps)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@syncretize.net> |
| **To** | bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com, cygwin-patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-07-17T01:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [027801c22d68$ba3a3220$d500a8c0@study2](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/027801c22d68$ba3a3220$d500a8c0@study2) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/20-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/17/01-05-00)


----- Original Message -----
From: "Brian Keener" <bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com>
To: "cygwin-patches" <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Wednesday, July 17, 2002 3:18 AM
Subject: Re: [Setup] [Patch] New Views for Skipped Packages and Installed
Packages (keeps)


> Robert Collins wrote:
> > if you look in CVS/Entries, the last field is the tag.
> > HEAD:
> > ```
> > /choose.cc/2.106/Mon Jul 15 11:33:48 2002//
> >
> > setup-200207:
> > /choose.cc/2.101.2.1/Fri Jul  5 02:01:10 2002//Tsetup-200207
> > ```
> >
>
>
> I must have mucked up a merge when I updated from CVS while I was making

these
> changes because all my tags showed // which would mean they were from

HEAD -
> correct?  I updated again and specified -r HEAD and now they all show

/THEAD so
> I must have it now.


Yes they should have been ok, I'd say a mucked up merge is correct. I use
cvs -z3 up -Akkv
when I need to reset to point to HEAD. grabbing the HEAD tag is a nuisance -
because it's not a branch, so the files get frozen and don't update. You
need MAIN if you want the trunk tag, but oftimes -rMAIN doesn't work.

> > To get a list of the available tags, you can look in val-tags in
>

CVSROOT.
> > (You may need to check CVSROOT out first). Or you can go to the cvsweb
>

site
> > referenced from http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin-apps/setup.html and
>

click
> > on the dropdown list of tags.
>
>
> I obviously don't understand something here.  I found what I needed on the

Web
> page (the list of tags) but as far as CVSROOT goes:  I looked at it on the

web
> and even checked it out but never saw a file called val-tags or anything

other
> file that listed the tags.  At any rate the drop down list works.


It's not visible on the web, but it does exist.

Rob


