# Re: [PATCH 0/4] Fix out-of-order keystrokes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **Date** | 2026-03-17T15:57:15+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [c5167e49-a4c9-cb71-374e-a33172c2efae@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c5167e49-a4c9-cb71-374e-a33172c2efae@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/14-24-36.thread.md#:~:text=2026/03/17/14-57-15)

Hi Takashi,

On Tue, 17 Mar 2026, Johannes Schindelin wrote:

> On Tue, 17 Mar 2026, Takashi Yano wrote:
>
> > Could you please test?
>
>
> Yes, I tested. There is already a problem in the `cmd.exe` test I
> introduced in response to your feedback. What it does is to launch
> `cmd.exe`, wait a few milliseconds, and then start typing `echo
> <long-string>`.
>
> As you can see from the output here, that does not work. The first two
> characters never make it to `cmd.exe`, and besides, `cmd.exe` is then
> stuck:
>
> ```
> $ cmd.exe
> eMicrosoft Windows [Version 10.0.26200.7984]c
> (c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
>
> D:\git-sdk-64\usr\src\MSYS2-packages\msys2-runtime\src\wip\ui-tests\msys2>ho ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789
> ```
>


Oh, I see what happened. I tested the wrong patches: You sent your series
in reply to mine, but did not mark it as "v1.5" or "v2" or anything, so my
script picked up the first 4 patches from my original patch series, and
the last two from yours.

And then you sent the v2 of your 4/6 as a stand-alone patch (i.e. not
inside the thread):
https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20260317141043.410-1-takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp/raw
This not-v2 and then only one patch v2 business is quite confusing, to be
honest.

So now I tested with your 1/6-3/6, v2 4/6, then 5/6 and 6/6. This time,
`cmd.exe` does not even show up:

```
me@work MINGW64 /d/git-sdk-64/usr/src/MSYS2-packages/msys2-runtime/src/wip/ui-tests/msys2 (main)
$ cmd.exe
ech|
```


The `|` there is not even a real pipe symbol, but the cursor. I couldn't
use regular copy and paste because MinTTY is now hanging so badly that it
does not react to mouse interactions anymore, I had to use Windows+Shift+T
to OCR the text.

Maybe it is time to take a step back, stop offering patches, and analyze
this by first talking about what is _supposed_ to happen in the scenario
tested by the AutoHotKey script? I mean, it's not written down anywhere
what the Pseudo Console support code is _supposed_ to do, apart from the
code itself, and since that code has bugs (obviously) it cannot serve as
proper documentation of the intended design.

Ciao,
Johannes


