# Re: [Patch]: Create Global Privilege

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2003-11-29T23:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20031129230722.GB6964@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20031129230722.GB6964@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/01-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/11/29/23-07-00)

On Wed, Nov 26, 2003 at 10:45:57AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 03:32 PM 11/26/2003 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Imagine a sshd service is running on the system.  This service has the
> > SE_CREATE_GLOBAL_NAME privilege and would create the global object on
> > system startup (given the service is in automatic mode).  Other processes
> > would then be able to access the global object, regardless if running in
> > a terminal session or not.  This would keep the process list together,
> > for instance.
>
> [...]
> The problem with the track you start on is that one can end up with a
> split system, e.g. the cygwin share in global space and a tty in local
> space, invisible to the rest of the system. I am unsure of what can
> happen then. Also the user share could be either global or local, depending
> if a user (or a seteuid process) is already running at the console/service
> at the moment a session starts under Terminal Services. 
> That leads to indeterminate behavior.


If we make sure that the first process started in a process hirarchy
determines where the shared mem is, that shouldn't be a problem.  The
decision should be made only once.

> > Also, shouldn't the prefix variable have a NO_COPY attribute?  If the
> > process setuids and forks, the new process might have different privileges
> > which might or might not result in the need to use a different object
> > name space.
>
>
> I think it's OK. forks don't call CreateProcessAsUser and memory_init happens
> early. However I am not 100% sure of what might happen following a seteuid
> (but it won't be worse than before the patch).


My above comment would support the NO_COPY, wouldn't it?

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


