# Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is  initialized

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-04-21T19:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060421191314.GA11311@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060421191314.GA11311@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/16-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/04/21/19-13-00)

On Fri, Apr 21, 2006 at 02:52:06PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> ----- Original Message ----- 
> From: "Corinna Vinschen"
> To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Friday, April 21, 2006 1:23 PM
> Subject: Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is 
> initialized
>
>
> > On Apr  6 12:35, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > >       * environ.cc (getearly): New function.
> > >          (getenv) : Call getearly if needed.
> >
> >
> > Thanks for the patch and sorry for the loooong delay.  I've applied a
> > slightly tweaked version of your patch, which uses a function pointer in
> > getenv, instead of adding a conditional.
> >
>
>
> Corinna,
>
> Thanks! Since sending the patch, I have found some issues with it :(
>
> In particular GetEnvironmentStrings returns a big block of
> storage that should be free (which we can't do), and that is
> going to be lost on a fork, potentially leading to trouble.
>
> Thus I have another implementation using GetEnvironmentValue
> and cmalloc. (with HEAP_1_MAX, so that it will be released
> on the next exec).
> I also take advantage of spawn_info, whose existence I had forgotten.
> Overall it's also simpler.
>
> Here is another patch, sorry for not sending this earlier.


I don't see any reason to permanently allocate memory with cmalloc.

I think that using GetEnvironmentStrings is still the right choice here.
You just have to make sure that it gets freed.  I'm going to check in a
cleanup of getearly which will move the rawenv variable to a static
which will potentially be used by environ_init.  Then environ_init will
free it if it has been previously set.

I've made some other minor stylistic changes to the function as well.

cgf


