# Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is  initialized

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-04-21T19:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [01fc01c6657c$347794c0$280010ac@wirelessworld.airvananet.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/01fc01c6657c$347794c0$280010ac@wirelessworld.airvananet.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/16-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/04/21/19-47-00)


----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com>
To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Friday, April 21, 2006 3:13 PM
Subject: Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is 
initialized


> On Fri, Apr 21, 2006 at 02:52:06PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> >
> > In particular GetEnvironmentStrings returns a big block of
> > storage that should be free (which we can't do), and that is
> > going to be lost on a fork, potentially leading to trouble.
> >
> > Thus I have another implementation using GetEnvironmentValue
> > and cmalloc. (with HEAP_1_MAX, so that it will be released
> > on the next exec).
> > I also take advantage of spawn_info, whose existence I had forgotten.
> > Overall it's also simpler.
> >
> > Here is another patch, sorry for not sending this earlier.
>
>
> I don't see any reason to permanently allocate memory with cmalloc.
>
> I think that using GetEnvironmentStrings is still the right choice here.
> You just have to make sure that it gets freed.  I'm going to check in a
> cleanup of getearly which will move the rawenv variable to a static
> which will potentially be used by environ_init.  Then environ_init will
> free it if it has been previously set.


But doesn't the program then have a pointer to memory that has been freed?
That pointer can also be accessed after forks.

Pierre


