# Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is  initialized

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-04-21T20:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060421201200.GA8588@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060421201200.GA8588@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/16-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/04/21/20-12-00)

On Fri, Apr 21, 2006 at 03:45:54PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> ----- Original Message ----- 
> From: "Christopher Faylor" <xxx-xx-xxxxxxxx-xxxxx-xxxxxx@xxxxxx.xxx>

                             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> To: <xxxxxx-xxxxxxx@xxxxxx.xxx>

     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Sent: Friday, April 21, 2006 3:13 PM
> Subject: Re: [Patch] Make getenv() functional before the environment is 
> initialized
>
>
> > On Fri, Apr 21, 2006 at 02:52:06PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > >
> > > In particular GetEnvironmentStrings returns a big block of
> > > storage that should be free (which we can't do), and that is
> > > going to be lost on a fork, potentially leading to trouble.
> > >
> > > Thus I have another implementation using GetEnvironmentValue
> > > and cmalloc. (with HEAP_1_MAX, so that it will be released
> > > on the next exec).
> > > I also take advantage of spawn_info, whose existence I had forgotten.
> > > Overall it's also simpler.
> > >
> > > Here is another patch, sorry for not sending this earlier.
> >
> >
> > I don't see any reason to permanently allocate memory with cmalloc.
> >
> > I think that using GetEnvironmentStrings is still the right choice here.
> > You just have to make sure that it gets freed.  I'm going to check in a
> > cleanup of getearly which will move the rawenv variable to a static
> > which will potentially be used by environ_init.  Then environ_init will
> > free it if it has been previously set.
>
>
> But doesn't the program then have a pointer to memory that has been freed?
> That pointer can also be accessed after forks.


Isn't that always a possibility?  You can't rely on the persistence of
the stuff returned from getenv().

cgf


