# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-13T00:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121113000257.GA13261@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121113000257.GA13261@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/13/00-03-00)

On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 10:50:23PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 12 15:02, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > I decided over the weekend to port over configury changes that I made to
> > Cygwin's now-out-of-date GIT repository.
> >
> > These changes basically just cleaned up some of the configure scripts
> > and made it easier to pinpoint where windows headers and libraries come
> > from by adding a --with-windows-headers and --with-windows-libs options.
> > However, some of the assumptions made for the git repository weren't
> > really valid for the CVS repository so there was a fair amount of work
> > involved.
> >
> > I thought that I'd do this so I could easily get up-and-running with the
> > MinGW64 stuff but I ran into some problems building things with gentoo's
> > MinGW64 implementation.  So, I switched to using the files from the
> > Cygwin release.
> >
> > As I mentioned in cygwin-developers, getting the most recent version of
> > mingw64 stuff working required making some changes to some Cygwin source
> > files.  Most of the changes just involved #undef'ing constants defined
> > in Windows headers.  Still, I was surprised that these hadn't already
> > been handled since I thought I was behind the times by still using the
> > Mingw32 stuff.
> >
> > Anyway, is a summary of the changes I've made to files is below.  I'll
> > be doing appropriate ChangeLogs too, of course.  I've also attached the
> > patch.
> >
> > This is a heads up in case this conflicted materially with any of the
> > w64 development.
>
>
> Looks good at first sight.  I see only one place which won't work for 64
> bit, the ccwrap script.  It uses i686-pc-cygwin-gcc/g++ hardcoded, but
> it should use something like ${target_cpu}-pc-cygwin-gcc/g++ to make it
> platform independent.  With a matching change, I can give it a try on
> 64 bit tomorrow.


That was really only for my own personal use.  It isn't meant to be used
with CC not in the environment.  That's only for when I was experimenting
with running the script outside of the build.

> I'm a bit puzzled about the necessity of some of the changes to source
> files.  Yaakov's Fedora 17 version of the headers is supposedly cut from
> the mingw64 trunk on 2012-10-16, while JonY's official headers have an
> upload date of 2012-10-18.  They should be practically identical.  Why
> do I not see any problems to build CVS HEAD?!?


You can keep asking me this question but I don't really have an answer.
Since I don't run Fedora, I'm not going to install it to figure it out.

cgf


