# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-13T09:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121113093301.GA23491@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121113093301.GA23491@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/13/09-33-00)

On Nov 12 22:31, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 07:02:57PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 10:50:23PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > I'm a bit puzzled about the necessity of some of the changes to source
> > > files.  Yaakov's Fedora 17 version of the headers is supposedly cut from
> > > the mingw64 trunk on 2012-10-16, while JonY's official headers have an
> > > upload date of 2012-10-18.  They should be practically identical.  Why
> > > do I not see any problems to build CVS HEAD?!?
> >
> >
> > You can keep asking me this question but I don't really have an answer.
> > Since I don't run Fedora, I'm not going to install it to figure it out.
>


I just checked and there's no difference in the header files at all.
Yaakov's version == JonY's version.

> Actually, an idea came to me in the thinking room that this might be due
> to the fact that my windows headers may not be considered to be system
> headers since they aren't in a preinstalled location.  I know that gcc
> can be more lax about redefine symbols in some situations when dealing
> with system headers.  Maybe that's it.


Looks like it.  The w32api headers are system headers so -isystem rather
than -idirafter should show a better result without requiring any of the
source file changes.

Especially having to define _WIN32 in winlean.h and winsup.h looks
pretty wrong.  I would also like to keep the ifndef/define brackets in
the headers since

```
  #ifndef _CYGWIN_IF_H_
  #define _CYGWIN_IF_H_

```

can be tested for in other headers while #pragma once can not.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


