# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-13T17:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121113173900.GA13846@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121113173900.GA13846@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/13/17-39-00)

On Tue, Nov 13, 2012 at 10:33:01AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 12 22:31, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 07:02:57PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Mon, Nov 12, 2012 at 10:50:23PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > I'm a bit puzzled about the necessity of some of the changes to source
> > > > files.  Yaakov's Fedora 17 version of the headers is supposedly cut from
> > > > the mingw64 trunk on 2012-10-16, while JonY's official headers have an
> > > > upload date of 2012-10-18.  They should be practically identical.  Why
> > > > do I not see any problems to build CVS HEAD?!?
> > >
> > >
> > > You can keep asking me this question but I don't really have an answer.
> > > Since I don't run Fedora, I'm not going to install it to figure it out.
> >
>
>
> I just checked and there's no difference in the header files at all.
> Yaakov's version == JonY's version.
>
> > Actually, an idea came to me in the thinking room that this might be due
> > to the fact that my windows headers may not be considered to be system
> > headers since they aren't in a preinstalled location.  I know that gcc
> > can be more lax about redefine symbols in some situations when dealing
> > with system headers.  Maybe that's it.
>
>
> Looks like it.  The w32api headers are system headers so -isystem rather
> than -idirafter should show a better result without requiring any of the
> source file changes.


Maybe I can use -isystem with ccwraper.  I'd previously gotten things
working without the wrapper, using idirafter so that's what I stuck
with.  However, the wrapper may now allow just always including the
windows headers last.

> Especially having to define _WIN32 in winlean.h and winsup.h looks
> pretty wrong.  I would also like to keep the ifndef/define brackets in
> the headers since
>
> ```
>  #ifndef _CYGWIN_IF_H_
>  #define _CYGWIN_IF_H_
>
> ```
>
> can be tested for in other headers while #pragma once can not.


I think that testing for "BLAH_DECLARED" for individual definitions is a
much better way to see if something is defined than relying on an
implementation detail like "_CYGWIN_IF_H".  Those are not supposed to be
a published interface.  In theory anyone could change those to something
like:

```
#ifndef _CYGWIN_IF_INCLUDED
#define _CYGWIN_IF_INCLUDED

and they would have been within their rights to do that.  I always felt
```

that it was wrong to be testing for those guards, even when I was doing
it.

However, I won't check those changes in.

cgf


