# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-13T18:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121113184442.GA13205@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121113184442.GA13205@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/13/18-44-00)

On Tue, Nov 13, 2012 at 07:19:08PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 13 12:39, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Nov 13, 2012 at 10:33:01AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > I would also like to keep the ifndef/define brackets in
> > > the headers since
> > >
> > > ```
> > >  #ifndef _CYGWIN_IF_H_
> > >  #define _CYGWIN_IF_H_
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > can be tested for in other headers while #pragma once can not.
> >
> >
> > I think that testing for "BLAH_DECLARED" for individual definitions is a
> > much better way to see if something is defined than relying on an
> > implementation detail like "_CYGWIN_IF_H".
>
>
> Sure.
>
> This might not be of much interest for the headers in the include/cygwin
> subdir, but there are applications out there which test for such header
> defines, and there are also applications using system-specific headers
> liberally.  Out of curiosity I had a look and none of the Linux/glibc
> headers seem to use #pragma once either for some reason.


I do see some '#pragma once's in my /usr/include tree but they don't
come from glibc.  Maybe it's a conscious decision not to use this or
maybe nobody could be bothered to make the change.  I don't see any
discussion in the libc-alpha mailing list about this but I only spent 10
seconds googling.

> An alternative might be something like
>
> ```
>  #pragma once
>  #define _CYGWIN_IF_H_
>
> ```
>
> It would introduce the new pragma and keep the definition available.


Yeah, that would work but you're still adding a define that shouldn't
really be used to the cygnosphere.

cgf


