# Re: [WIP] mingw64 related changes to Cygwin configure and other assorted files with departed w32api/mingw

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-11-13T21:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121113210739.GA22535@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121113210739.GA22535@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/11/13/21-07-00)

On Tue, Nov 13, 2012 at 07:47:32PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 13 13:34, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Nov 13, 2012 at 12:39:00PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > Maybe I can use -isystem with ccwraper.  I'd previously gotten things
> > > working without the wrapper, using idirafter so that's what I stuck
> > > with.  However, the wrapper may now allow just always including the
> > > windows headers last.
> >
> >
> > Yep.  Adding the windows headers directories dead last as -isystem means
> > that none of my header file changes are needed, *except* for the #define
> > _WIN32.  I wonder why you don't need those.  My (i.e., Yaakov's) cross
> > compiler doesn't define _WIN32.
> >
> > % /cygwin/bin/i686-cygwin-gcc --version
> > i686-cygwin-gcc (GCC) 4.5.3 20110428 (Fedora Cygwin 4.5.3-4)
> > Copyright (C) 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
> > This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
> > warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
> >
> > % /cygwin/bin/i686-cygwin-gcc -dD -E -xc /dev/null | grep WIN
> > ```
> > #define __WINT_TYPE__ unsigned int
> > #define __WINT_MAX__ 4294967295U
> > #define __WINT_MIN__ 0U
> > #define __SIZEOF_WINT_T__ 4
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > #define __CYGWIN32__ 1
> > #define __CYGWIN__ 1
> >
> > So, except for that, mystery solved.
> > ```
> >
> >
> > My new, smaller diff is attached.  Unless you have objections, I'll be
> > checking this in.
>
>
> I have no objections against the patch in general, but I'd rather like to
> test it first.  I'd like to try to figure out what the _WIN32 problem is
> first, and I'd like to give it a try in the 64 bit scenario.


Ok, I'm thoroughly confused.  I made another few unrelated changes to the
wrapper script and now I don't need the _WIN32 setting either.

cgf


