# Re: [PATCH] update site goldstar award types images from jpg/png to webp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2022-02-05T16:18:31-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [df2f4097-35c1-78b0-3cb2-30d424fc167e@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/df2f4097-35c1-78b0-3cb2-30d424fc167e@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/06-59-58.thread.md#:~:text=2022/02/05/23-18-31)

On 2022-02-05 10:50, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> On 05.02.2022 15:26, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 02/02/2022 20:41, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Feb  2 11:49, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > On 2022-02-02 02:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Feb  1 23:59, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > >
> > >
> >
> > [...]
> > > >
> > > > Would you be interested in a similar patch series for the whole site?
> > >
> >
> >
> > Do you have any information on how widespread browser support for webp 
> > is?
>


Sorry did not see that as my ISP outsourced spam filtering to some 
outfit which bounces mailing list messages, triggering confirm 
membership messages to me every few days from various lists.

> https://caniuse.com/webp
> It seems covered by most of recent browsers


Everything from our Qupzilla and newer, but excluding all IE 
(unsupported), and our Midori and Epiphany.

One issue I found is that our DocBook 4 does not support webp, so there 
is currently no support for webp images in generated docs from 
cygwin-apps/cygwin-x-doc, so no value in converting, unless we want to 
script an update to the image sources in the *generated* html.
This affects only cygwin-htdocs/xfree/docs/ug/figures/ ~640KB reduced to 
~195KB in the attached image summary log.
Directory summary totals are grouped at the bottom to show overall numbers.

It also looks like cygwin-htdocs/xfree/docs/ug/stylesheet-images/ and 
cygwin-htdocs/xfree/images/ are not referenced anywhere so can be rm'ed: 
checked with egrep -iR 'png|gif|bmp' cygwin-htdocs/.

So the net effect would be a reduction in image sizes from <4MB to <1MB.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-htdocs-images-webp-sizes.log](cygwin-htdocs-images-webp-sizes.log) (text)
