# Re: Patch to pass file descriptors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-29T11:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020629173324.GA29874@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020629173324.GA29874@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../27/00-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/29/11-22-00)

On Sat, Jun 29, 2002 at 10:01:28AM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> Corinna's point raises the issue of what the future of cygserver is
> expected to be in Cygwin. Is it going to be installed by default, with
> programs being able to rely on it without question? or, as seems to be
> the attitude at the moment, is it going to remain an optional add-on,
> only run by those who need its "special" services?


You may be able to find cygserver discussion in the cygwin-developers
archive.

The bottom line is that I don't want to have to tell Red Hat's customers
to install a server component if they want to use cygwin.  I also don't
want to have to tell every person who wants to release a standalone
cygwin program that they have to copy around cygwin1.dll and
cygserver.exe, finding some way to start cygserver automatically.

So, cygserver will always be optional on my watch.

> I can see that it might well raise the complexity level of the setup
> program (apart from anything else) if Cygwin installs a service as
> part of the default installation (i.e. setup then has to stop the
> service before updating the DLL and then has to re-start the service
> or prompt the user to re-start their machine). But are there any other
> reasons why we wouldn't want cygserver to be a standard part of every
> Cygwin installation?


It should certainly be installed, and maybe we can add a question about
whether it should be started but I don't want to make it mandatory.

cgf


