# Re: [PATCH v3 2/2] Cygwin: expose all windows volume mount points.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-02-12T13:39:15-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [9fd9ec5e-f9a5-d510-2792-3e0ca24e3f11@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/9fd9ec5e-f9a5-d510-2792-3e0ca24e3f11@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-56-21.thread.md#:~:text=2025/02/12/21-39-15)

On Wed, 12 Feb 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> Hi Jeremy,
>
> your patch is basically fine, and I was about to push it, when I
> realized that I don't quite understand this:
>
> What exactly is de-duplicated here?
>
> I have a drive mounted under C:\drvmount.
> I create an additional mount entry:
>
>   $ mount C:/drvmount /home/corinna/drv
>
> If I call mount, I see two mount entries, both pointing to the
> /home/corinna/drv dir:
>
> ```
>   $ mount | grep drvmount
>   C:/drvmount on /home/corinna/drv type ntfs (binary,user)
>   C:/drvmount on /home/corinna/drv type ntfs (binary,posix=0,noumount,auto)
>
> ```
>
> The first is the explicit mount, the second is the cygdrive entry.
> If I disable the above de-dup code, the result is the same.


It was *supposed* to not return the second one.  Maybe I broke it when
trying to break out of the loop early...  I will test this scenario and
see why it doesn't work as expected.

> However, either way, both point to the explicit mount point.
> Wouldn't it be helpful to see /cygdrive/c/drvmount?
>
> ```
>   C:/drvmount on /home/corinna/drv type ntfs (binary,user)
>   C:/drvmount on /cygdrive/c/drvmount type ntfs (binary,posix=0,noumount,auto)
> ```
>


The existing code masked off of available_drives if it saw an explicit
mount entry to the root of that drive letter.  I assumed it was desired
not to show a cygdrive mount entry in that case.  If it is, maybe it could
use cygdrive_posix_path instead of conv_to_posix_path?  I'm kind of
concerned that it could get confusing though... consider:

drive mounted under C:\drvmount
mount C: /something
mount would show
```
 C: on /something
 C: on /cygdrive/c
 C:/drvmount on /cygdrive/c/drvmount

```

and say nothing about /something/drvmount.  Of course, the existing
behavior I was trying to replicate is to say nothing about /cygdrive/c...



