# Re: [PATCH] ccwrap: fix build with non-english locale set

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-02-29T12:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160229125729.GD3525@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160229125729.GD3525@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/02/29/12-57-00)

On Feb 29 13:19, mail@patrick-bendorf.de wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> Am 2016-02-29 11:33, schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> > Hi Patrick,
> >
> > On Feb 29 08:12, Patrick Bendorf wrote:
> > > /winsup/
> > > * ccwrap: fix build with non-english locale set
> >
> >
> > First of all, why fix it?  Without at least a short explanation what you
> > observe without this patch, this change seems arbitrary.
> >
>
> short explanation: after setting up cygwin on my systems the default locale
> is set to "de_DE.UTF-8". this leads to ccwrap not picking up certain
> "-isystem" arguments, which in turn leads to "stddef.h: no such file or
> directory". this breaks the build process for systems having non english
> locale.
>
> consider the following two pastebins from a system with an english locale
> and mine. a whole bunch of "-isystem" can not be found on my system using
> german locale.
> http://pastebin.com/ip5L7dZY
> http://pastebin.com/wZBc2cqr
>
> ccwrap scans the output of the first compiler invocation (line 21) for some
> specific english output on and around line 43.
> output of first invocation on german locale system:
> http://pastebin.com/ZZzVGReh
> [...]
> > Ideally the above would test for the current build system being Cygwin
> > and use "C.UTF-8" on Cygwin, "C" otherwise.
> >
>
> thanks for pointing that out.
> i changed the patch to check uname -o for cygwin string and set the locale
> to either C or C.UTF-8


Patch applied.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
