# Re: Limited Internet speeds caused by inappropriate socket buffering in function fdsock (winsup/net.cc)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, Daniel Havey <dhavey@gmail.com> |
| **Date** | 2017-01-26T20:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170126201952.GA2613@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170126201952.GA2613@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/23-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/01/26/20-20-00)

Hi Daniel,

any news?


Thanks,
Corinna


On Jan 14 16:17, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 11 16:38, Daniel Havey wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> > I can see your email on the archive, but, I never received it in my
> > gmail account (not even in a spam folder).  I think the Internet ate
> > your message.
>
>
> No, I only sent the reply to the list.  It's customary in the Cygwin
> mailing lists not to CC the original poster, unless the poster requests
> it.  I CCed you now, of course.
>
> > Yes Windows :).  I'm the Program Manager for Windows 10 transports and
> > IP.  Anything in layers 4 or 3.
>
>
> Cool.  I'm glad for any input from "upstream" :)
>
> > We can help you with network stack in
> > the current release of Windows 10.  Downlevel is more difficult.  I'm
> > not sure about the answer to your question on the size of wmem.  I
> > don't think that there is a static value that will work in all cases
> > since Windows TCP will send 1 BDP worth of data per RTT.  If the BDP
> > is large then the static value could easily be too small and if the
> > BDP is small then the static value could easily be too large.  It will
> > take some digging to figure out what the best practice is.  I will do
> > some digging and let you know the results.
>
>
> I'm really looking forward to it!
>
> > In the mean time I will apply your recommendations to my patch and repost it.
>
>
> Same here.   Thanks a lot for fixing another of those pesky "Cygwin is
> slow" problems :)))
>
>
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
> Red Hat




-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
