# Re: [PATCH v2 0/6] Some AF_UNIX fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-10-14T12:39:00-04:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ea3b1e6a-8857-cd1f-349d-6fc64c2d1b77@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ea3b1e6a-8857-cd1f-349d-6fc64c2d1b77@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/16-49-42.thread.md#:~:text=2020/10/14/16-39-00)

On 10/13/2020 7:49 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct  8 17:36, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On 10/4/2020 12:49 PM, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > I'm about to push these.  Corinna, please check them when you return.
> > > The only difference between v2 and v1 is that there are a few more
> > > fixes.
> > >
> > > I'm trying to help get the AF_UNIX development going again.  I'm
> > > mostly working on the topic/af_unix branch.  But when I find bugs that
> > > exist on master, I'll push those to master and then merge master to
> > > topic/af_unix.
> >
> >
> > FYI to Corinna and anyone else interested in AF_UNIX development.  After
> > pushing a few patches to the topic/af_unix branch I did some cleanup
> > (locally) and merged master into the topic branch.  I don't want to do a
> > forced push and risk messing up the branch, so I've created a new branch,
> > topic/af_unix_new, and will do all further work there until Corinna returns
> > and decides how we should proceed.
>
>
> No, that's ok, just force push.


OK, I've done that now.  The branch contains a few sendmsg fixes, a first cut of 
a recvmsg implementation, and a merge from master.  I've done some testing of 
recvmsg, but many things are not yet tested.  I'll work on continued testing next.

Are you aware of any test suite that I could run?  I've been using examples from 
Kerrisk's book, because that's what I read to learn the basics of sockets.  But 
those are just examples and are not meant to be comprehensive.

Ken


