# Re: Add wrappers for ExitProcess, TerminateProcess

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-05T20:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091005203916.GB9289@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091005203916.GB9289@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/05/20-39-00)

On Mon, Oct 05, 2009 at 10:27:22PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct  5 15:04, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > Normally, posix programs should call abort(), exit(), _exit(), kill() --
> > or various pthread functions -- to terminate operation (either their
> > own, or that of some other processes/thread).  However, there are two
> > cases where the win32 ExitProcess and TerminateProcess functions might
> > justifiably be called:
> > ```
> >   1) inside cygwin's own process startup/shutdown implementation
> >   2) "Native" programs that use the w32api throughout, but are compiled
> > ```
> >
> > using the cygwin compiler (e.g. without -mno-cygwin). [*]
> >
> > However, the ExitProcess and TerminateProcess functions, when called
> > directly, do not allow for the 'exit status' maintained by cygwin to be
> > set. This can be a problem when such cygwin applications are exec'ed by
> > other cygwin apps: cygwin's code for exec'ing children doesn't ever
> > check the value of GetExitCodeProcess as set by these win32 functions,
> > if the child application is also a cygwin app.
> >
> > The attached patch address this problem, by providing two wrappers:
> > ```
> >   cygwin_terminate_process <--> TerminateProcess
> >   cygwin_exit_process      <--> ExitProcess
> > ```
> >
>
>
> I have some doubts that we really need such a functionality externally
> available, outside of the limited scenario of something like
> pseudo-reloc.  An API for those knowing what this is about is very
> likely sufficient.  What about
>
> ```
>   cygwin_internal (CW_TERMINATE_PROCESS);
>   cygwin_internal (CW_EXIT_PROCESS);
>
> ```
>
> No new entry point, no need to document it.


Big ditto, except obviously both of those need an extra exit code
argument.

cgf


