# Re: [PATCH v3 0/2] newlib/libc/time/strftime: fix multi-page table format issues

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-02-22T16:53:02-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [2fe87524-51a6-bba6-4ba3-2c8c15cb406a@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2fe87524-51a6-bba6-4ba3-2c8c15cb406a@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](23-53-02.thread.md#:~:text=2023/02/22/23-53-02)

On 2023-02-22 13:10, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 21/02/2023 09:15, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Jon,
> > I'd like your GTG on the patchset before merging it.
>
>
> Sorry, I don't think this patchset is good as is.
>
> > On Feb 20 21:17, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > Discussion about why newlib man generation by docbook2man is
> > > incompatible with how man is incompatible with groff/tbl/grohtml:
> > >     https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-groff/2023-02/msg00118.html
> > > There does not appear to be good way to deal in docbook2man processing
> > > with generation of tables > "page" size, or that may not adversely affect
> > > other [newlib] doc man page tables, as the problem occurs solely on the
> > > strftime.3 man page!
> >
>
>
> So, this seems to be saying that "strftime manpage misrenders under some 
> circumstances", but I even after re-reading several times, I have no clear sense 
> what that circumstance is exactly: generating html output? with current version 
> of groff? a future one?
> (Your answer should be a single sentence)


Current groff tbl pre-/processing generates table images for non-tty 
"devices"/file formats where tables > "page" size disappear if it is not handled 
appropriately, but the proper solution for tbl preprocessor output from groff 
can not be used, as there is a conflict between man requiring macro .TH and tbl 
needing command .TH to be passed thru to fix the problem - can't be done!

> > > The imminent groff/tbl release fixes a number of tbl issues, so may
> > > affect man pages with tables differently.
> > > The following groff/grohtml release plans to change grohtml, from
> > > generating tables as PNG graphics, which don't work reliably on some
> > > "devices"/file formats, and are not searchable, to generating tables in
> > > searchable text form on all "devices"/file formats, and fix other
> > > related issues, so may also affect man pages with tables differently.
> > > So for the current release, localize the changes to the man page chew
> > > input embedded in the strftime.c source comments, and the generated
> > > strftime.3 man page table formatting.
> > > Be prepared to tweak formatting if doc generation needs it, and
> > > eventually eliminate custom processing.
> >
>
>
> I'm not sure "make it look worse in the typical case (someone looking at it in a 
> terminal with 'man strftime') to make it look better in the atypical case (?)" 
> is a good trade-off.


We could mess up other tables in other man pages if we tried to change 
makedocbook/docbook2man processing to try to split "long" tables as that depends 
on the length of the descriptive text column entries in lines and pages, which 
depends on the "device"/file format!

It seems easier, given the future changes above with unknown impacts, to handle 
the strftime long man page table rendering by splitting the (chew) table about 
the middle +/-%Ox, which fixes the table length > page length issue, then 
correcting the generated man page markup, which fixes the non-tty table 
rendering issue.
We could also do all the work just on the generated man page markup, but that 
seems even "hack"ier to me, than the current proposal.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


