# Re: [PATCH v3] Cygwin: Change pthread_sigqueue() to accept thread id

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-07T21:55:55-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [fc51157a-729b-4ce9-a310-b2947ecefbbe@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/fc51157a-729b-4ce9-a310-b2947ecefbbe@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/07-29-18.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/08/05-55-55)

Hi Corinna,

On 11/7/2024 3:13 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Mark,
>
> On Nov  6 23:29, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > Change the first parameter of pthread_sigqueue() to be a thread id rather
> > than a thread pointer. The change is to match the Linux implementation of
> > this function.
> >
> > The user-visible function prototype is changed in include/pthread.h.
> > The pthread_sigqueue() function is modified to work with a passed-in thread
> > id rather than an indirect thread pointer as before.  (It was
> > "pthread_t *thread", i.e., class pthread **.)  The release note for Cygwin
> > 3.5.5 is updated.  CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR is bumped to 351.
>
>
> This patch is against cygwin-3_5-branch.  All patches should go to the
> main branch in the first place and only then backported to the 3.5
> branch if it's a bugfix.  So the patch sent to cygwin-patches should
> always be against main.


Oops & Sheesh. Consider me reminded of this basic rule :-()

> That leads to a problem with your patch.  CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR is
> already at 355 in the main branch, while it's at 350 in the 3.5 branch.
> That means, if your patch bumps CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR, it would have
> to bump to 356.  However, 356 doesn't make sense in the 3.5 branch,
> and setting it to 351 in the 3.5 branch would collide with the 351
> bump in main having a different meaning.
>
> The way out is, your patch should not bump CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR
> at all.  Rather, just add a comment to version.h. There's already the
> note preceding the definition of CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MAJOR:
>
> ```
>    Note that we forgot to bump the api for ualarm, strtoll, strtoull,
>    sigaltstack, sethostname. */
>
> ```
>
> Just add the pthread_sigqueue bugfix here if you like, along the lines of
>
>    Note that fixing the first pthread_sigqueue argument did not bump the api.
>
> Alternatively we could just go ahead without touching version.h.


I like the latter alternative best.  v4 incoming shortly...

> > Reported-by: Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de>
> > Addresses: https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2024-September/256439.html
> > Signed-off-by: Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com>
> > Fixes: 2041af1a535a (cygwin.din (pthread_sigqueue): Export.)
>
>
> ```
>    $ git show 2041af1a535a
>    fatal: ambiguous argument '2041af1a535a': unknown revision or path not in the working tree.
>    Use '--' to separate paths from revisions, like this:
>    'git <command> [<revision>...] -- [<file>...]'
>
> ```
>
> Shouldn't that be 50350cafb375?  The Fixes commit message text is
> supposed to be set in quotes,btw.:
>
>    Fixes: 50350cafb375 ("* cygwin.din (pthread_sigqueue): Export.")


Of course, on the formatting.  Re incorrect hash: I must have flubbed 
the copy/paste from cgit by pointing at the wrong thing.  I'll verify 
where I went wrong there.

> Other than the above points, the patch itself is fine.


Thank you for the review.

..mark


