# Re: [PATCH 0/3] Some O_PATH fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-01-29T14:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20200129142240.GN3549@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200129142240.GN3549@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../27/13-21-00-3.thread.md#:~:text=2020/01/29/14-22-00)

On Jan 29 10:52, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 29 03:08, Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 1/28/2020 3:48 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > On 1/28/2020 2:01 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > > On 1/28/2020 12:06 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > As outlined on IRC, I found a problem with the ACLs created on new
> > > > > FIFOs and frixed that (I think).  However, Cygwin doesn't actually
> > > > > return the real permissions in stat(), only the constant perms 0666,
> > > > > kind of like for symlinks.  I didn't have time to look into that yet,
> > > > > but it would be great if we could fix that, too.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I'll take a look if you don't get to it first.
> > >
> > >
> > > Two quick thoughts, and then I won't have time to think about this any more
> > > until tomorrow:
> > >
> > > First, I wonder why in fstat_fs we're not using the stat handle (i.e., pc.handle()).
> >
> >
> > Ignore this.  I was confused.
> >
> > > Second, in the call to get_file_attribute in fstat_helper
> > > (fhandler_disk_file.cc:478), why do we set the first argument to NULL instead of
> > > using our handle?
> >
>
>
> The handle is a pipe handle, not the file handle, and the permissions
> on the pipe handle were not reflecting the permissions on the file.
> The NULL pointer was trying to make sure that the file gets opened
> for fetching the security descriptor in get_file_sd().


I pushed a fix for the permission problem, but I didn't touch the
get_file_attribute() call in fstat_helper.  If you think this can
be further streamlined, go ahead.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
