# Re: [PATCH] Buffer over-run fix for getusershell(3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-05-19T08:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20140519083137.GB2357@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20140519083137.GB2357@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/19-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/05/19/08-31-00)

On May 18 20:12, David Stacey wrote:
> This is the first patch resulting from the Coverity Scan analysis of the
> Cygwin source code. The patch fixes Coverity ID 59932. Note that we don't
> have that many bugs in the Cygwin source code - that's just an ID that
> Coverity assigned to this issue. The patch is only a single line, so it
> falls into our definition of 'trivial'.
>
> getusershell(3) returns the next line from the '/etc/shells' file [1]. This
> contains a path to an executable, so it makes sense for 'buf' to contain
> PATH_MAX characters.
>
> Now, the definition of PATH_MAX is the maximum length of the path, including
> the null terminator [2]. So the for() loop should copy PATH_MAX-1
> characters, in order to allow for the null terminator.
>
> However, by copying PATH_MAX characters, there is a possible buffer over-run
> when the null terminator is applied. The patch (attached) corrects this.
>
> Change Log:
> 2014-05-18  David Stacey  <...>
>
>         * winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc(getusershell) :
>         Fixed theoretical buffer overrun of 'buf' that would occur if
>         /etc/shells contained a line longer than 4095 characters.


Thanks, patch applied.  Just your ChangeLog needs a bit of work.  The
Cygwin dir has its own ChangeLog file so the path should be relative to
that:

	* syscalls.cc (getusershell): ...


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
