# Re: [patch] setup.exe changes for Redownload/Reinstall Current version or Sources only - Part 2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-09T21:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010510004404.D12136@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010510004404.D12136@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/14-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/09/21-45-00)

On Thu, May 10, 2001 at 12:03:10AM -0400, Brian Keener wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > One problem that I had is that the installation of the sources
> > ignored my mount setting for /usr/src and/or /src.  It extracted
> > directly to (in my case) f:/cygwin/usr/src which made the extraction
> > invisible to me, since /usr/src is mounted elsewhere.
> >
> > I don't know if this is a new problem of if setup.exe has always
> > worked like this, but this is a bug that could theoretically cause
> > us problems.  Anyone want to look at this one?
> >
>
> Chris,
>
> I don't think this is an original problem with setup and I found this 
> recent change in the ChangeLog:
>
> 2001-03-10  Chris Abbey  <chris_abbey@yahoo.com>
>
>        * install.cc: install sources into /usr/src instead
>        of /, also include the sizes of source tarballs
>        in total_bytes.
>        * download.cc: include sizes of source tarballs in
>        total_download_bytes.
>
> I think I found the problem logic but only via quick look - I haven't 
> really studied or stepped through yet.  In your last message you said:
>
> > I don't care if the location is fixed, it should just honor the cygwin 
> > mount table.
>
>
> And I am not sure I know what you mean by this or how setup should work 
> as a result.


If my root is:

f:\cygwin

and my /usr/src is:

e:\src

then when setup.exe installs sources, it should either (1) (preferred) put the
sources in e:\src since that is what /usr/src translates to or (2) detect that
there is a mount point and say "Sorry, can't do that."

What it is doing now is silently putting things in f:\cygwin\usr\src, which
turns out to be inaccessible on my machine since e:\src masks it.

> Also Dr.  Zell seems to have a similar problem with lib and bin and not
> sure what setup should do to deal with the mount points.


Yes.  This sounds like a similar problem.

> In install.cc (do_install) we have this code:
>
> ```
>          int e = 0;
>          if (package[i].action != ACTION_SRC_ONLY)
>            e += install_one (package[i].name, pi.install, 
> ```
>
> pi.install_size, pack
> age[i].action, FALSE);
> ```
>          if (package[i].srcaction == SRCACTION_YES && pi.source)
>            e += install_one (concat (package[i].name, "-src", 0), 
> ```
>
> pi.source, pi
> source_size,
>                              package[i].action, TRUE);
>
>
> which does the install for either the source or binary package and then 
> in (install_one) we have this code:
>
>      dest_file = map_filename (fn, isSrc?"/usr/src":NULL);
>      
>      
> which provides the extra path info for source files and then in 
> (map_filename) we see:
>
> char *
> map_filename (char *fn, const char *extra = 0)
> {
> ```
>  char *dest_file;
>  char *root_dir_with_extra = concat (root_dir, extra, 0);
>  while (*fn == '/' || *fn == '\\')
>    fn++;
>  if (strncmp (fn, "usr/bin/", 8) == 0)
>    dest_file = concat (root_dir_with_extra, "/bin/", fn+8, 0);
>
> ```
>
> As you can see we are adding on the extra path which is /usr/src when it 
> is a source file and using this for the create path and then we do some 
> additional checking with bin and then also further down (code not 
> included here) for lib.
>
> Pretty sure that extra is the new stuff for the source file which is 
> referenced in the change log, but as I said - I am unclear how setup 
> should (as you say) honor the mount point and thus what I need to do to 
> fix.  If you could provide some additional clarification.


As Robert has mentioned, it doesn't sound like this has anything to do
with the problem.  It sounds like setup needs to understand more about
the mount table so it can figure out what /usr/src or /usr/bin
translates to.  I wouldn't want it to go as far as understanding
symbolic links (although I can see that it could be a problem) but it
should at least not surprise me with its actions.

cgf


