# Re: [PATCH] doc/ntsec.xml: Fix typo

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-02-22T13:14:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20180222131414.GA10740@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20180222131414.GA10740@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/17-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/02/22/13-14-00)

On Feb 22 03:04, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Thu, 22 Feb 2018, David Macek wrote:
> > On 2018-02-21 14:05, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > The patch is malformed.  It claims to contain 7 lines (6 lines context,
> > > one line changed), but actually it has only 4 lines context.  Please
> > > check your git settings.
> >
> >
> > On 21. 2. 2018 22:56, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > I can see why you strenuously request git format-patch/send-email
> > > attachments ;^>
> >
> >
> > I did use `git format-patch` to make that message (then sent using TB).
> > I guess I'll have to try something else next time.
>
>
> Been there, done that, even the "I'll have to try something else".  It's
> astounding how SeaMonkey, Pine, and probably gmane bork up the formatting of
> something that looks so benignly laid out to begin with.
>
> After much experience putting up with these and other MUAs from us, Corinna
> really does know *the* solution that just works.  'git format-patch'
> followed by 'git send-email'.


Actually, in this case I'm a bit puzzeled about mutt.  I would have sworn
mutt doesn't screw up, but the fact that there are encoded lines in the
original mail like

  =20=20\n

which simply disappear in the output after storing the mail with the
decode-copy function leaves me stumped.  I also tried piping into cat,
and the problem persists.  Weeeeeird.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
