# Re: console enhancements: mouse events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-11-06T10:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091106101448.GA2568@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091106101448.GA2568@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/11/06/10-15-00)

On Nov  6 09:20, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> Hi,
> About enhancements of cygwin console features, I've now worked out a 
> patch which does the following:


Thanks for the patch, it looks like a nice addition.

However, there's the problem of the copyright assignment.  As described
on the http://cygwin.com/contrib.html page, in the "Before you get
started" section, we can't take non-trivial patches without have a
signed copyright assignment form (http://cygwin.com/assign.txt) in place.

Usually it takes the time to snail-mail the assignment to California,
plus 3 or 4 days.  Sorry for the hassle, but it's legally necessary.

A few comments:

> * Implement additional mouse reporting modes 1002 and 1003 as known 
>   from xterm and mintty; they report mouse move events.
> * Add detection and reporting of mouse scroll events to mouse reporting 
> ```
>   mode 1000.
>   Note: This works on my home PC (Windows XP Home) but it's not effective 
>   on my work PC (Windows XP Professional) where the mouse wheel scrolls the 
>   Windows console (which it doesn't on the other machine); I don't know 
>   how to disable or configure this.
> ```
>


Open the console properties dialog and disable QuickEdit.

> * Enforce consistence between select() and read() about whether mouse 
> ```
>   reporting input is available by moving all checks into the common 
>   function mouse_aware.
> ```
>
> * Add mouse focus reporting mode 1004 as known from xterm and mintty.
> * As a separate change, where I added the initialization of the additional 
> ```
>   reporting modes, I also added and fixed some screen attribute modes as 
>   known from the Linux console (and xterm):
>   - ESC[22m disable bold, ESC[28m disable invisible, ESC[25m disable blinking
>   - ESC[2m dim as usual on other terminals, instead of ESC[9m
> ```
>


For backward compatibility, I'd prefer if ESC[9m would still do the same.
As long as ESC[9m isn't desparately needed for something else...

> Some other console issues (not covered by this patch) are probably better 
> discussed on cygwin-developers but maybe I can mention them here already:
> * Maybe the escape sequences of shifted function keys should be modified 
>   to comply with those of the Linux console?


Aren't they compatible with xterm?  I don't think it's a terrible good
idea to change that.

> * I would like to fix some key assignments:
>   - Control-(Shift-)6 inputs Control-^ which is not proper on international 
>     keyboards if Shift-6 is not "^", Control-^ (the key) does not input 
>     Control-^ (the character) on the other hand; the same glitch 
>     occurs in the pure Windows console, however.
>     Unfortunately, with the functions being used it is not possible to 
>     detect that shifted key "^" was hit together with Control; only 
>     keycodes/scancodes are available when Control/Shift/Alt are used. So 
>     I don't know whether this can easily be fixed. It works in mintty but 
>     I think mintty uses different Windows functions.


How do you enter any of the control chars ^^, ^\, ^[, ^], ^_ anyway?
In a CMD window using an english keyboard I can just enter any of them
using the control char,  C+S+6 = ^^, C+\ = ^\, C+[ = ^[, C+] = ^],
and C+S+- = ^_.  Same in a cygwin console.  The reason is that these
sequences return their ASCII value in the INPUT_RECORD in
Event.KeyEvent.uChar.

Except for one of them, this doesn't work with a german keyboard and
german keyboard layout.  In this case, the respective keysequences
C+^, C+AltGr+sz, C+AG+8, C+AG+9 return nothing at all.  Only the
C+S+- key returns ^_, as expected.

>   - Pressing something like Alt-ö on a German keyboard leaves an illegal UTF-8 
>     sequence (the second byte of the respective sequence) in input, apparently 
>     because Alt-0xC3 is handled somehow. Don't know, though, whether this is 
>     a cygwin console issue or maybe a readline issue.


Alt is converted to a leading ESC.  I don't know how to fix that for
non-ASCII chars, yet.

> * I intended to implement cursor position reports and noticed that their 
> ```
>   request ESC[6n is already handled in the code; it does not work, however, 
>   so I started to debug it:
> ```
>


This needs some more debugging, I guess.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


