# RE: fix cond_race... was RE: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Norman Vine <nhv@cape.com> |
| **To** | 'Robert Collins' <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>, 'Jason Tishler' <jason@tishler.net> |
| **Date** | 2001-09-30T05:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [003201c149ab$0e16e020$a300a8c0@nhv](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/003201c149ab$0e16e020$a300a8c0@nhv) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../28/00-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/30/05-21-00)

 Robert Collins writes:
>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Norman Vine"
>
> > Robert Collins writes:
> >
> > > ----- Original Message -----
> > > From: "Jason Tishler" <jason@tishler.net>
> > > >
> > > > On Fri, Sep 28, 2001 at 05:48:16PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > > Well this patch should make evreything good -  fixing the critical
> > > > > section induced race.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > At the risk of appearing dense...  Should this patch fix the pthreads
> > >
> >
>

hang
> > > > trigger by Python's test_threadedtempfile regression test?
> > >
> > >
> > > I've checked in my completed code. I -cannot- tickle this bug via my
> > > test suite at all now. (I found that one of my test scripts was slightly
> > > buggy in that it made an incorrect assumption - it was passing when this
> > > bug was tickled - correcting that let me hit this bug nearly every time
> > > :]).
> > >
> > > So please, give it a go and see how it fares.
> >
> >
> > This now causes a hard crash in any of the Python threading tests
> > with an attempt to read memory at 0x00000018 failure.
> >
> > Note I believe this started, for me at least, with the
>
> second piece of this  patch.
> > Also note that I could not tickle this bug before.
>
>
> Interesting. Well I can drop you an updated test case which I'm sure
> will tickle the older .dll. Also I found that backgrounding the window
> the test is running in took the chance of hitting the bug from "very
> likely" to "sure thing" - if you'll excuse the technical talk :].
>
> > Win2k sp2  Cygwin=ntsec   python src 2-1.1-2 from cygwin distribution
> >
>


See attached



---

**Attachments:**

- [bt](bt) (text)
