# RE: fhandlers codebase, magic dirs, etc.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ronald Landheer <info@rlsystems.net> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-30T13:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [NFBBLOMHALONCDMPGBLFCENKCCAA.info@rlsystems.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/NFBBLOMHALONCDMPGBLFCENKCCAA.info@rlsystems.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/04-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/30/13-03-00)

Hi Robert,

> Ronald, if you are using a MS mailer, are you sending HTML mail? I
> notice that HTML mails that get stripped seem to confuse MS Outlook
> express, which is what I have open today :].

I am using M$ Outlook 2000 for mail, but I always send text-only (with 
one minor exception in the last week).
I don't know what's confusing your mailer :(

> > > I disagree. If a "real" file can exist in /dev, that is the
> > > responsibility of the dev fhandler to manage that. The dev fhandler
> > > will still do all the grunt work. A directory is just a file that
> > > points to other files. So the logic for what fhandler looks after a
> > > fiven directory is _identical_ as for looking after files.
> >
> > Then you *do* agree - with the second option: if a fhandler handles a
> > type of directory - say, the /dev dir - the fhandler for it shows
> > everything in it, and there's no "continue to" logic to be followed.
>
> ah yes, on closer inspection I can see what you mean... and that does
> need to be thought through. The concept of special nodes is not
> currently clear in cygwin. That is, some files with special names get
> diverted to specific fhandlers - ie /dev/null - which is one of the
> things that this work promises to eliminate (or at least remove from
> the core code to a "devfs" fhandler. And files opened via specific
> system calls, such as bind, are diverted to different fhandlers via
> the internal fd table. But unless I've missed something, no file
> located by a path is diverted _based on the 'type' of the file_. The
> reason for that is that there is no mechanism to query the parent node
> of the file for it's fhandler type. (And that's how it should be done,
> rather than iterating through the fhandlers.) There are bits of code
> that resemble this - ie detecting /dev/null as mentioned before - but
> they only go so far. My 2c for this one is to leave it for another
> day. Simply consider all files as being 'owned' by the fhandler
> associated with the longest matching mount entry. Extend the
> build_fhandler (?? writing from memory) class factory to have that
> matching fhandler act as a factory for files located within its
> domain. If the file actually needs a different fhandler, then that
> matching fhandler's factory will return a fhandler of the appropriate
> type. Make that factory function a virtual, with the default to return
> "this" and for the general case, you will have no coding to do. Then
> for something like devfs, where the sub paths "null", "clipboard" and
> so on are different classes, the devfs factory creates instances of
> the appropriate fhandler. What we are really doing is federating the
> class factory. This, like the stat change to be similar to open is a
> fundamental change, but one that adds significant opportunities. (BTW:
> this particular change is probably about 50 lines of code in total -
> somewhat trivial).

The only problem I still see here is one of logic: handling any file as 
owned by the fhandler that happens to be mounted at the longest matching 
mountpoint means *every* fhandler should be able to handle *every* type 
of file that *might* exist within the space of "owns". This means that 
handling *any* type of file that might occur anywhere must be a _very_ 
basic feature - i.e. a virtual method, part of the most common 
denominator of inherited virtual methods. That may require some 
explaining - which can be done, ofcourse, but IIRC, Li-Kai Liu had a 
point in this direction to make on the original thread over at 
cygwin@cygwin.com (the thread was called "[PATCH] ls & "magic" cygdrive 
dir (was: RE: cygdrive stuff)").
Personally, I think the code will be a lot better off when the long-term 
goal of splitting filesystem handling and file handling is what we shoot 
for now: it will be clearer who gets to do what, and most of the actual 
file handling stuff is already there anyway.
What would have to be done is design a good system of filesystem 
handling - which is kinda what we're doing here anyway. To me, the logic 
telling us to do that is a lot clearer than just leaving it for later.
Chris talked about small incremental steps for OpenSource software 
development. I agree that that is better in most cases, but in this 
case, redesigning the system is, IMHO, the way to go, as it repairs the 
bug reported by Salvador earlier, reaches a goal that has been there for 
some time, clears up the codebase, and makes it a lot easier to add new 
functionalities later. (It would have to be branched off the main stream 
Cygwin code, though, as replacing something is generally done by taking 
it out and putting something in its place, and taking the current system 
out would break Cygwin terribly..).
One problem with this approach is that it will take a while, and I don't 
know how stable the rest of the API: as all of Cygwin is changing 
continually, hooking this into the rest of Cygwin may require different 
hooks at different times..
Another problem is that I definitely have to get the sandpaper out and 
grate the rust off my C++, but OK..

> > I hadn't decided between the two yet, but with a bit of thought - 
> > i.e. the concept of mounting the fhandler for /dev at /dev settling
> > in my synapses - I agree with not having the "continue to" logic:
> > it's just a matter of who owns the directory, and asking him (the
> > proper fhandler) for the data.
>
> Yes exactly my point. You where correct however, in that there are two
> cases and both have to be addressed. So the solution is to *do both*.
> Pass the responsibility onto the proper fhandler (as determined by the
> mount table) and if it has special virtual stuff to do, it does it.) 

Exactly: pass the responsability to the owner of the place. If, for 
example, I want to open a _file_ in /dev, I call the handler (owner) of 
/dev to open it, who sees it's a normal file and opens it accordingly - 
whether opening a normal file should be part of the job of the handler 
of /dev, or should be part of the job of a class that handles regular 
files - I'd go for the second (i.e. mount an fhandler over each regular 
file to handle those, and a file system handler over each part of the 
file system).

I.e. the open() function would pretty much do this:
```
* where is it? (who owns it?)
* ask the owner: what is it? (who should handle it)
* tell the handler: open it!
A call to stat() would just do the first two.
```


> > > > I've taken a look at the current stat() implementation. My guess is
> > > > it can't stay: should be replaced by a call to the stat()s in the
> > > > fhandlers asking "is this yours?", again, followed by some conflict
> > > > resolution..
> > >
> > > NO!. Or rather "yes th current stat is win32 only and it has to go,
> > > but this continuation meme you have will make your life very very
> > > hard".
> >
> > With some more second though, I agree this would make my life harder.
> > Though the current stat() implementation should go, replaced by
> > something more general/generic.
> > I agree it should not be a "does this belong to you?" approach, but I
> > guess it should be done by the fhandler handling whatever
> > directory/mount point is being looked in..
>
> Yes, I think we're on the same wavelength now :}. Sorry for my
> slight concept blindness before.
> > Please do - you probably know the layout already, which means that I
> > don't have to start at nothing figuring out how it works.
>
> Tomorrow I will knock something up.

OK, thanx.

Greetz!

Ronald

NB: Just a small question: how does one go about debugging the Cygwin 
DLL? I mean: ye can't have two of them at the same time, so I could just 
put one aside in a gzip, but bugs in things like this might leave gdb 
broken as well. I can brew up a whole bunch of testcases and see which 
ones fail, but it would be nice to be able to step through the source.. 
Is it possible?


