# Re: memory leak in cygheap

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-30T18:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010930210446.A4405@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010930210446.A4405@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../27/09-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/30/18-04-00)

On Fri, Sep 28, 2001 at 01:47:13AM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Thu, Sep 27, 2001 at 10:15:56PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> > Hi!
> >
> > Thursday, 27 September, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
> >
> > > > do we need this "no free names" logic at all? the only suspicious
> > > > place is fhandler_disk_file::open () where we were storing pointer to
> > > > real_path's win32_path, so if it was changing later we were staying in
> > > > sync with those changes. but i can't see why it may change after open
> > > > is called, so making duplicate looks safe for me. Comments?
> > >
> >
> >
> > CF> We've recently changed build_fhandler so that it probably isn't necessary
> > CF> to use the no_free_names anymore.
> >
> > CF> I don't have a lot of time to investigate right now, but it's possible that
> > CF> we can now get rid of this entirely.
> >
> > CF> So, I think your patch is probably overkill.
> >
> > ? why overkill? i've just moved two identical pieces of code into
> > separate routine and removed no_free_names checks. I was thinking it's
> > rather "underkill" because no_free_names bit in flags are left intact.
>
>
> I didn't look closely at the patch but I thought that it was possible
> that we don't need to unset it in two places.


I just wiped out big chunks of the fhandler code which dealt with the names
allocation.  It was quite satisfying.

Corinna's idea of calling patch_conv "early" is really proving to simplify
a lot of things -- most notably stat_worker().

I'm running the test suite now and fixing some last minute glitches but I expect
to have something to check in tomorrow.

cgf


