# Re: [Patch]: Create Global Privilege

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-12-01T11:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20031201111805.GA28741@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20031201111805.GA28741@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/26/01-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/12/01/11-18-00)

On Sun, Nov 30, 2003 at 12:07:22AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Wed, Nov 26, 2003 at 10:45:57AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 03:32 PM 11/26/2003 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Imagine a sshd service is running on the system.  This service has the
> > > SE_CREATE_GLOBAL_NAME privilege and would create the global object on
> > > system startup (given the service is in automatic mode).  Other processes
> > > would then be able to access the global object, regardless if running in
> > > a terminal session or not.  This would keep the process list together,
> > > for instance.
> >
> > [...]
> > The problem with the track you start on is that one can end up with a
> > split system, e.g. the cygwin share in global space and a tty in local
> > space, invisible to the rest of the system. I am unsure of what can
> > happen then. Also the user share could be either global or local, depending
> > if a user (or a seteuid process) is already running at the console/service
> > at the moment a session starts under Terminal Services. 
> > That leads to indeterminate behavior.
>
>
> If we make sure that the first process started in a process hirarchy
> determines where the shared mem is, that shouldn't be a problem.  The
> decision should be made only once.


I've applied the patch which just a minor change to remove the
`if (!prefix)'.

However, I think the right thing to do would be to add prefix to
cygheap_init so that it survives exec(2) calls.

Chris, any problem with this?  It's another 8 bytes...

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


