# Re: [PATCH]:  Add flock syscall emulation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-12-01T18:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3FCB86E6.8090604@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3FCB86E6.8090604@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/27/19-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/12/01/18-22-00)

Corinna wrote:
> On Sun, Nov 30, 2003 at 12:57:48PM -0500, Nicholas Wourms wrote:
>
> > Corinna wrote:
> >
> > > I've run indent on flock.c since its formatting was non-GNU.
> >
> >
> > I can understand why you did it in this case (the tabs were out of 
> > control), but can we make an exception for bsd/isc-derived code?  I 
> > think that enforcing this rule strictly on written-from-scratch source 
> > is ok, but doing it on derived source reduces the overall transparency 
> > of changes against the upstream version.
>
>
>
> I see.  Is that necessary for flock?  It's not BSD derived and will
> not likely need another external update.


Oh, I think I was unclear.  I was trying to say is that I agree with 
your formatting changes to the flock code.  I just wanted to see if I 
could have an exception from this policy in certain cases where the 
source was derived.

> However, we have a problem here, which I just saw when looking into
> the flock code another time.  The newlib defintion of `struct flock'
> isn't 64 bit aware and it doesn't adhere to the SUSv3 definition.  :-(
> It uses 'long' as datatypes for l_start and l_len but these should
> be off_t.
>
> So we need to define flock32 and flock64 structs and change the fcntl
> interface to accept both.  Sic.


Hmm, I see what you mean.  While I've been mulling over the problem, it 
seems you've already solved it.  Thanks for catching that oversight on 
my part.

Cheers,
Nicholas


