# Re: [Patch] Allow to disable root privileges with CYGWIN=noroot

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-09-01T18:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090901183209.GA14650@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090901183209.GA14650@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/29/14-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/01/18-32-00)

On Aug 30 21:38, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > If you plan to run a Cygwin application with restricted rights from your
> > administrative account, the IMHO right way would be to start the Cygwin
> > application through another application which creates a *really*
> > restricted user token using the Win32 function CreateRestrictedToken and
> > then call cygwin_set_impersonation_token/execv to start the restricted
> > process.  A Cygwin tool which accomplishes that would be much more
> > useful and much more generic than this patch, IMHO.
> >
> >
>
> I agree, let's forget the patch.
>
> But I'm not sure how cygwin_set_impersonation_token() could be of any  
> help here. This function sets user.external_token which is only used in  
> seteuid32(). Setuid/seteuid() cannot be used because the restricted  
> token is not related to another user id.


I had a quick look into the seteuid code and I see the problem.  I don't
see a quick way around it, unfortunately.  I'll have a deeper look into
it when I'm back from vacation.

> A quick test with native calls works for me:
>
> ```
>  HANDLE t, rt;
>  OpenProcessToken (GetCurrentProcess (), TOKEN_ALL_ACCESS, &t);
>  CreateRestrictedToken (t, DISABLE_MAX_PRIVILEGE, 0, ..., 0, &rt);
>  CreateProcessAsUser (rt, 0, "c:/cygwin/bin/mintty...", ...);
> ```
>


Cool.  Some stuff in the child won't work though since the entire
exec(2) magic is missing.

> BTW: CreateRestrictedToken is apparently missing in  
> /usr/include/w32api/*.h, but it is present in libadvapi32.a


PTC.  The w32api files always need a lot of work.  Microsoft adds 
stuff with every new OS release.  It's hard to stay on top.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


