# Re: hierarchy in setup (category stuff)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-developers@sources.redhat.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-23T07:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [054c01c0fbef$5f600e20$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/054c01c0fbef$5f600e20$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/23/07-16-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Earnie Boyd" <earnie_boyd@yahoo.com>
To: <cygwin-developers@sources.redhat.com>
Sent: Friday, June 22, 2001 8:57 PM
Subject: Re: hierarchy in setup (category stuff)


> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> >
> > > 4) Should category should uncategorised packages appear as?
> > > "Uncategorised" seems singularly unappealing..
> >
> >
> > Misc?
> >
>
>
> Optional?
>


I've gone with "Misc". Optional has a implied judgment about the package
value, and I'm aiming for backwards compatability: ash etc should not
_need_ to be categorised for this setup.exe to make sense to the user.

I think that locally found packages (see recent threads on
cygwin@cygwin.com) can be dumped into a new category "local" or
something similar.

I've attached my current sandbox changes. The code _is not finished_. (I
am _looking_ at adding the prev/curr/exp capability to whole categories
as well as the code cleanliness I mention below).

However: Feel free to throw stones at the UI, functionality, look n
feel. I need to know whether this is what folk have anticipated users
will understand.

Code-wise I need to tidy up the classes a little, and doing that will
make the code significantly smaller. The end I am currently targeting is
a large array of lines, with categories having a sub-count of the number
of packages visible and their own array pointer for those packages. That
will allow a slightly better class hierarchy...

anyway, have fun, feedback wanted.

Rob


---

**Attachments:**

- [choose.h](choose.h) (text)
- [hierarchy.patch](hierarchy.patch) (text)
