# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: Fix the address of myself

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **Date** | 2019-07-26T07:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20190726070904.GE11632@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20190726070904.GE11632@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/16-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/07/26/07-09-00)

On Jul 25 19:59, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 7/25/2019 9:37 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jul 24 19:11, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > On 7/24/2019 12:54 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > From: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> > > >
> > > > v2: rephrase commit message
> > > >
> > > > Introducing an independent Cygwin PID introduced a regression:
> > > > [...]
> > > > This patch makes sure to set the handle to INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE again
> > > > when creating a new process, so init knows that myself has to be created
> > > > in the right spot.  While at it, fix a potential uninitialized handle
> > > > value in child_info_spawn::handle_spawn.
> > > >
> > > > Fixes: b5e1003722cb ("Cygwin: processes: use dedicated Cygwin PID rather than Windows PID")
> > > > Fixes: 88605243a19b ("Cygwin: fix child getting another pid after spawnve")
> > > > Signed-off-by: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> > > > [...]
> > >
> > >
> > > I'll be glad to take a close look at this as you asked.  But I'm not familiar
> > > with this part of the code, so it will take me a little time.
> > >
> > > Ken
> >
> >
> > Thanks!  I accidentally pushed the patch a few minutes ago when I
> > was actually just planning to push the ndbm.h patch.  Anyway, I
> > took the opportunity to create new snapshots with all patches from
> > yesterday and today, so the getpgrp problems in GDB 8.1.1 and 8.2.1
> > should both be fixed there as well.
> >
> > I'd still be glad if the two of you could check if my patch makes
> > sense as is.
>
>
> It looks fine to me, though I can't claim to have grasped all its implications. 
> In any case, I've installed it and have done a few things that often catch bugs 
> (e.g., building emacs and running its test suite), and there are no problems so far.
>
> My next step will be to install the experimental pipe code that I posted in 
> https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2019-q2/msg00144.html to see if that shakes 
> anything loose.
>
> Ken


Great, thank you!


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
