# [PATCH] include/cygwin/limits.h: add XATTR_{NAME,SIZE,LIST}_MAX

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-05-30T14:04:46-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f4106af5-ed7a-0df5-a870-b87bb729f862@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f4106af5-ed7a-0df5-a870-b87bb729f862@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-04-46.thread.md#:~:text=2023/05/30/20-04-46)

On Tue, 30 May 2023 13:25:38 +0200, Philippe Cerfon wrote:
> Hey there.
>
> Linux exports XATTR_{NAME,SIZE,LIST}_MAX in it's linux/limits.h and
> e.g. the CPython interpreter uses them for it's XATTRs functions.
>
> I made a corresponding PR at CPython
> https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/105075 to get the code built
> for Cygwin, but right now this would fail due to the missing
> XATTR_*_MAX symbols.
>
> The attached patch below would add them to cygwin/limits.h.


Patches for Cygwin under winsup are submitted to cygwin-patches@cygwin.com 
(forwarded there).

> But beware, I'm absolutely no Windows/Cygwin expert ^^ - so whether
> the values I've chosen are actually correct, is more guesswork rather
> than definite knowledge.
>
> As written in the commit message, I think:
> - XATTR_NAME_MAX corresponds to MAX_EA_NAME_LEN
> and
> - XATTR_SIZE_MAX to MAX_EA_VALUE_LEN
>
> though I have no idea, whether these are just lower boundaries used by
> Cygwin, while e.g. Windows itself might set longer names or value
> lenghts, and thus - when Cygwin would try to read such - it might get
> into troubles (or rather e.g. CPython, as it's buffers wouldn't
> suffice to read the EA respectively XATTR.
>
> Neither to i have an idea about XATTR_LIST_MAX. I'm not even 100% sure
> what it means (I guess the max number of XATTRs per file). Not to
> speak about whether there's such maximum for Windows EAs,
> And again - as above - what would happen if Windows itself would set
> more than that limit and within Cygwin one would try to read/list all.
>
> Thanks,
> Philippe


-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada


---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-export-XATTR_-NAME-SIZE-LIST-_MAX.patch](0001-export-XATTR_-NAME-SIZE-LIST-_MAX.patch) (text)
