# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: signal: Introduce a lock for the signal queue

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-12-05T11:29:07+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z1GAc9kBcwRQ5_wM@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z1GAc9kBcwRQ5_wM@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/11-41-12.thread.md#:~:text=2024/12/05/10-29-07)

On Dec  5 13:46, Takashi Yano wrote:
> On Wed, 4 Dec 2024 13:53:14 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec  4 20:41, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > Currently, the signal queue is touched by the thread sig as well as
> > > other threads that call sigaction_worker(). This potentially has
> > > a possibility to destroy the signal queue chain. A possible worst
> > > result may be a self-loop chain which causes infinite loop. With
> > > this patch, lock()/unlock() are introduce to avoid such a situation.
> >
> >
> > I was hoping for a lockfree solution, but never mind that for now.
>
>
> I cannot imagine how the lockfree can be realized.
> Consider the queue chain:
> A->B->C->D
> A<-B<-C<-D
> where "->" shows next link and "<-" shows prev link.
> Assume a thread tries to clear B, and another thread tries to clear C.
> Two processes, i.e.
> clear(B)
> B->prev->next = B->next
> B->next->prev = B->prev
> and
> clear(C)
> C->prev->next = C->next
> C->next->prev = C->prev
> are running at the same time. Even if each line is executed atomically,
> the next case is not avoidable.
>
> clear(B)			clear(C)
> B->prev->next = B->next						A->next = C
> 				C->prev->next = C->next		B->next = D
> B->next->prev = B->prev						D->prev = A
> 				C->next->prev = C->prev		D->prev = B
>
> Then, the result is broken as:
> A->C->D
> A<-B<-D
> ```
>    B->D
>    B<-C
> ```
>
> while expected result is:
> A->D
> A<-D
>
> Is there any way to execute atomically two lines:
> B->prev->next = B->next
> B->next->prev = B->prev
> using Interlocked* functions?


It is possible, apparently.  There's a university presentation with a
nice overview how to do this with a CAS primitive (e. g.
InterlockedCompareExchange):

https://www.cse.chalmers.se/~tsigas/papers/SLIDES/Lock-Free%20Doubly%20Linked%20Lists%20and%20Deques.pdf

Admittedly, I never tried it myself.  So, never mind that for now.
It might be a fun side-project, though.


Corinna


