# Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-04-16T19:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010416225423.A24590@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010416225423.A24590@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/16/19-54-00-1)

On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 12:26:29PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > I don't really understand what the passwd_sem code in security.cc is
> > trying to do.  It seems to short circuit get_id_from_sid in the case
> > where this function is called "simultaneously" from two 
> > different threads?
> > Or is this function somehow called recursively from getpwent?
>
>
> I believe the recurse goes (witout function names - off top of head)
> fopen->check security->getpwuid->read_etc_password->fopen.
>
> the problem is that 
> a) we can't change passwd_state from uninitialised until _after_ the
> read completes, or calls to getpwuid et al will think it's been read and
> attempt a search.
> b) the recursive loop above will deadlock if it comes back into
> read_etc_password.


So stop it in get_id_from_sid.  If get_id_from_sid sees that it is being
called recursively, exit immediately.

> So we need a variable (not passwd_state) to indicate if we are currently
> in the protected area of read_etc_passwd.
>
> > If that is the case, then the "passwd_sem" variable could be local to
> > security.cc, couldn't it?  As it is implemented now, it seems like
> > one thread calling getpwent could impact another thread that was
> > calling get_id_from_sid.
>
>
> It needs to be set in read_etc_passwd because if two threads call
> 1 - getpwnam
> 2 - fopen(foo)
>
> both calls may result in read_etc_passwd being called, but only one will
> enter the mutex via fopen, the other will enter the mutex via
> read_etc_passwd. Instant deadlock.
>
> Trylock isn't a solution because then the getpwnam and related functions
> will return without actually having read the database.


Why?  One thread will block, one will read /etc/passwd.  When
/etc/passwd is read, the state is set to something other than
uninitialized and the mutex is released.  The other thread wakes up
sees the thread state change and returns, but /etc/passwd has been
cached so it can use it.  Isn't that the point of the lock/unlock?

> The current code is thread safe because only one thread enters the
> protected code section, and that protected section sets the sem variable
> so that fopen won't recurse back into read_etc_passwd. 


In my experience, whenever you try to use two mechanisms to control
recursion or simultaneous access you are asking for trouble.

> A true semaphore could be used, but as the current one is mutex
> protected there's no point in extra overhead.


Still not convinced.

It still seems like there is potential for error if two threads call
get_id_from_sid.  One may correctly read a UID via getpwuid, one will
short-circuit.  Hmm.  This would be a problem even if we were attempting
to detect recursion via a static variable.

Maybe we need another passwd_state == 'initializing'.

Hmm, again.  We actually have *three* variables controlling how this
operates now, passwd_state, passwd_sem, and etc_passwd_mutex.  IMO,
that's too many.

cgf


