# RE: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-04-16T22:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF08EEF0@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF08EEF0@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](22-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/16/22-05-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ]
> Sent: Tuesday, April 17, 2001 2:52 PM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com; cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?
>
>
> On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 02:03:19PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > I've remembered my key thought:
> >
> > fopen should only fail open when etc_passwd is being read. 
> >
> > We've got two thread issues here: 
> > 1) a area that requires serialisation (reading the file into memory) 
> > 2) a potential deadlock due to recursion
> > (read_etc->fopen->get_id->read_etc)
>
>
> You probably know this, but, recurison won't cause the mutex to block
> since repeated calls to a mutex in the same thread don't block if the
> thread owns the mutex.  It will recurse, though, of course, 
> which is not
> right.


Yes. Which is why the passwd_sem was there initially.

> > I think we should address the two issues separately. They aren't the
> > same thing after all.
>
>
> Ah right.  I forgot my own point.  This can be controlled by changing
> the state of passwd_state to something like "initializing".
>
> Yes.  I don't see how it can possibly be the right behavior that one
> thread will call get_id_from_sid and get the right behavior 
> and another
> one will not.
>
> You just can't use a static variable to guard against recursion in a a
> multi-threaded application.  You could use thread local storage for
> this though, I guess.


Yes. pthread_key's are your friend :].

> > > Hmm.  This would be a problem even if we were 
> > > attempting
> > > to detect recursion via a static variable.
> >
> >
> > Get_id_from_sid should know whether the call is part of parsing
> > /etc/passwd. We don't want to serialise disk access or opens 
>
> in general,
> > so some thought is needed on this one.
> >
> >
> > > Hmm, again.  We actually have *three* variables 
> >
>
> controlling how this
> > > operates now, passwd_state, passwd_sem, and etc_passwd_mutex.  IMO,
> > > that's too many.
> >
> >
> > Why don't we abstract out the read_etc_passwd into the 
>
> search function?
> > That will cleanup some of the state test issues. 
> >
> > That gives
> > passwd_state - whether the passwd file has been parsed
> > etc_passwd_mutex - serialises the parsing.
> > passwd_sem - allows get_id_from_sid to skip checking access on
> > /etc/passwd when parsing /etc/passwd.
> >
> > I think the correct solution is to get rid of passwd_sem 
>
> completely. Get
> > rid og get_id_from_sid's shortcut capability, and give the search
> > function the ability to do a manual  one off parse of the 
>
> file, without
> > storing the result, to satisfy any getpwnam requests while 
>
> /etc/passwd
> > is being parsed. 
>
>
> I won't disagree with the thought of getting rid of passwd_sem since
> that is what I've been saying from the start.  I don't like the
> idea of allowing a one-off parse of /etc/passwd, though.


Why not? I'm suggesting that we actually get to check security on
/etc/passwd in calls to getpwnam. Or is that a bad thing?


Other than that, it looks good. I presume the cygheap-> changes are
related issues/general code tidyup?


Rob


