# RE: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-04-16T22:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF79C1@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF79C1@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](22-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/16/22-39-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ]
> Sent: Tuesday, April 17, 2001 3:27 PM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com; cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?
>
>
> On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 02:57:58PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > I won't disagree with the thought of getting rid of 
> >
>
> passwd_sem since
> > > that is what I've been saying from the start.  I don't like the
> > > idea of allowing a one-off parse of /etc/passwd, though.
> >
> >
> > Why not? I'm suggesting that we actually get to check security on
> > /etc/passwd in calls to getpwnam. Or is that a bad thing?
>
>
> Not in general, but I know from experience that adding /etc/passwd
> parsing slows down things badly and people complain.  I still have a
> nagging feeling that we should be able to do this without resorting to
> double parsing, too...  It's too late for me to do creative thinking,
> though.


Sure I agree with that. 

My suggest re: manual parsing was broken. I'm not truely awake myself...
(We'd re-enter fopen). Further thinking suggests that:

we have two options and one bugfix.
Bugfix: (We should set a notification on changes to /etc/password and
reparse it if needed).

1) fail (return -1 or 0).
2) inform the fopen function that we are bootstrapping our user list,
don't check security (but user access to /etc/password must still get
checked).

I don't know the best way to do 2). Telling get_id_from_sid is the wrong
way IMO. (The point being that on unix, the kernel _always_ has read
access to files, and thus should always manage to read /etc/passwd.

Rob


