# RE: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-04-16T22:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF08EEF5@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/EA18B9FA0FE4194AA2B4CDB91F73C0EF08EEF5@itdomain002.itdomain.net.au) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](22-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/16/22-49-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ]
> Sent: Tuesday, April 17, 2001 3:46 PM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com; cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?
>
>
> >
> > My suggest re: manual parsing was broken. I'm not truely 
>
> awake myself...
> > (We'd re-enter fopen). Further thinking suggests that:
> >
> > we have two options and one bugfix.
> > Bugfix: (We should set a notification on changes to /etc/password and
> > reparse it if needed).
>
>
> Yes.  We should add this as a todo item.  It's been a 
> longstanding goal.
>
> Cygwin could notice when it closes /etc/passwd after writing 
> and reparse
> it.  That wouldn't handle the case of people modifying /etc/passwd
> via notepad but, nyah! nyah!
>
> We also need to protect /etc/passwd parsing with a global lock.


Isn't that what the mutex does? Or do you mean across process's. If you
mean across process's - why? Doesn't each process hold the parsed table
separately?

> > 1) fail (return -1 or 0).
> > 2) inform the fopen function that we are bootstrapping our user list,
> > don't check security (but user access to /etc/password must still get
> > checked).
> >
> > I don't know the best way to do 2). Telling get_id_from_sid 
>
> is the wrong
> > way IMO. (The point being that on unix, the kernel _always_ has read
> > access to files, and thus should always manage to read /etc/passwd.
>
>
> So, that should be satisfied by my change.  /etc/passwd will be read
> correctly when cygwin wants to access it but "user" attempts 
> will fail.


I thought your change will cause fails if cygwin is reading it, even if
the request came from a user?

> cgf
>



