# Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-04-16T22:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010417014600.A29876@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010417014600.A29876@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](22-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/16/22-45-00)

On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 03:32:24PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ]
> > Sent: Tuesday, April 17, 2001 3:27 PM
> > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com; cygwin-xfree@cygwin.com
> > Subject: Re: [PATCH] Re: pthread -- Corinna?
> >
> >
> > On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 02:57:58PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > I won't disagree with the thought of getting rid of 
> > >
> >
> > passwd_sem since
> > > > that is what I've been saying from the start.  I don't like the
> > > > idea of allowing a one-off parse of /etc/passwd, though.
> > >
> > >
> > > Why not? I'm suggesting that we actually get to check security on
> > > /etc/passwd in calls to getpwnam. Or is that a bad thing?
> >
> >
> > Not in general, but I know from experience that adding /etc/passwd
> > parsing slows down things badly and people complain.  I still have a
> > nagging feeling that we should be able to do this without resorting to
> > double parsing, too...  It's too late for me to do creative thinking,
> > though.
>
>
> Sure I agree with that. 
>
> My suggest re: manual parsing was broken. I'm not truely awake myself...
> (We'd re-enter fopen). Further thinking suggests that:
>
> we have two options and one bugfix.
> Bugfix: (We should set a notification on changes to /etc/password and
> reparse it if needed).


Yes.  We should add this as a todo item.  It's been a longstanding goal.

Cygwin could notice when it closes /etc/passwd after writing and reparse
it.  That wouldn't handle the case of people modifying /etc/passwd
via notepad but, nyah! nyah!

We also need to protect /etc/passwd parsing with a global lock.

> 1) fail (return -1 or 0).
> 2) inform the fopen function that we are bootstrapping our user list,
> don't check security (but user access to /etc/password must still get
> checked).
>
> I don't know the best way to do 2). Telling get_id_from_sid is the wrong
> way IMO. (The point being that on unix, the kernel _always_ has read
> access to files, and thus should always manage to read /etc/passwd.


So, that should be satisfied by my change.  /etc/passwd will be read
correctly when cygwin wants to access it but "user" attempts will fail.

cgf


