# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Disable pseudo console if TERM is dumb or not set.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-30T14:49:25+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200830124925.GQ3272@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200830124925.GQ3272@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/12-00-15.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/30/12-49-25)

Hi Takashi,

On Aug 29 20:12, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On Sat, 29 Aug 2020 04:25:54 +0900
> Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > On Fri, 28 Aug 2020 15:45:03 +0200
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Takashi,
> > >
> > > On Aug 26 21:00, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > Pseudo console generates escape sequences on execution of non-cygwin
> > > > apps.  If the terminal does not support escape sequence, output will
> > > > be garbled. This patch prevents garbled output in dumb terminal by
> > > > disabling pseudo console.
> > >
> >
>
> [...]
> > >
> > > Would you mind to encapsulate the TERM checks into a fhandler_pty_slave
> > > method so the TERM specific stuff is done in the fhandler code, not
> > > in spawn.cc?
> >
> >
> > Thansk for the suggestion. I will submit v2 patch.
>
>
> What do you think of v3 patch attached? With this patch,
> terminal capability is checked by looking into terminfo
> database rather than just checking terminal name. This
> solution is more essential for the issue to be solved,
> I think.
>
> One downside of this solution, I noticed, is that tmux
> sets TERM to "screen", which does not have CSI6n, by
> default. As a result, pseudo console is disbled in tmux
> by default. Setting TERM, such as screen.xterm-256color,
> will solve the issue.


I like the idea in general, but isn't there a noticable perfomance hit?


Corinna


