# Re: etc_changed, passwd & group.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-17T15:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030117153256.GA4335@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030117153256.GA4335@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/17/15-31-00)

On Fri, Jan 17, 2003 at 10:06:02AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > On Thu, Jan 16, 2003 at 02:07:18PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Thu, Jan 16, 2003 at 01:57:21AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > Here is the code as it stands. It compiles & runs, and passes
> > > > fork tests correctly. Feel free to takeover or at least
> > > > have a look. I will continue testing tomorrow evening.
> > > >
> > > > I include only the 5 files that are related to etc_changed,
> > > > the 5 others (setuid on Win9X) can wait.
> > >
> > >
> > > Hmm.  I have a slightly less intrusive idea for how to handle this.  I'll
> > > check it in shortly.
> >
> >
> > Maybe not so "less intrusive" after all.  I broke out the etc handling
> > stuff into a separate class and moved even more functionality into
> > pwdgrp than you did.  I hope Corinna approves.
> >
> > I also hope that I got all of your changes that didn't conflict with my
> > work in.  I'm generating a new snapshot now.  I guess we should ask
> > people to test it for a couple of days before I release 1.3.19.  Sigh.
> >
> > Oh, and I just removed the warning when FindFirstChangeNotification
> > fails.  This should make the Novell users happy even though the
> > performance will be less than wonderful.
> >
> > Thanks for your patch and your insight, Pierre.
>
>
> O.K. Chris, I will take a look this weekend. I had moved ALL the etc
> handling out of cygheap.cc, into a class in the passwd code, as we had
> discussed (I thought).
>
> Also I had merged the pwdgrp_check and pwdgrp_read classes into
> a single class because that makes the code much simpler. For example
> pwdgrp_check maintains a win32 path but pwdgrp_read recomputes 
> that very same path each time it is called by pwdgrp_check
> (indirectly, through read_etc_passwd). To add a cherry on the cake,
> the path kept by pwdgrp_check originally comes from pwdgrp_read.
>
> I had also simplified other parts. For example the file can be closed
> and the timestamp updated as soon as the file is read. There is no reason
> to wait until the internal passwd structures have been updated.


This is what I did, too.  I only took a glance at what you'd done and
thought it could be done a little more simply.  As it turns out, I was
wrong, but the end result was that I thoroughly understood the code
again, so I checked in what I'd done + any of your changes that added
more functionality.

> I am also enclosing the little test program I am using. If you run
> strace a.exe | fgrep 'Read /etc' you should see what gets updated
> where. You have 15 seconds to touch either /etc/passwd or /etc/group.
> Running strace sh -c a.exe | fgrep 'Read /etc' should yield a 
> different behavior because a.exe is execed.


I wrote a similar program and watched the results as I modified
/etc/passwd.  I also added some strace output to ensure that /etc/passwd
wasn't just being read repeatedly.  It didn't seem like it was.

So, I think the end result should be the same even though the
implementation differs slightly.  I basically kept most of Corinna's
infrastructure.  I also merged the two pwdgrp* classes, introduced a new
etc class used by pwdgrp, got rid of close and get_fname, made gets
private, renamed 'open' to 'load' since it is responsible for loading
the whole passwd/group, and introduced the concept of an /etc "handle"
which can be registered with a specific filename.  I'm not entirely
happy with the handle implementation but I thought that it might be
useful if we wanted to do something similar with other files in /etc
someday.

My "intrusive" changes are the same as yours, though.  All of the
*_state variables got renamed in my patch, same as yours.  That's why
I said 'not so "less intrusive" after all'.

cgf


