# Re: [PATCH 3/3] Remove recursive configure for cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2020-10-22T19:57:57+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [fb4a8bf6-9b4a-3e77-cb32-bdd7fcce49fe@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/fb4a8bf6-9b4a-3e77-cb32-bdd7fcce49fe@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/19-47-02.thread.md#:~:text=2020/10/22/18-57-57)

On 22/10/2020 18:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct 21 20:47, Jon Turney wrote:
> > There's doesn't seem to be much use in independently building these
> > subdirectories,
>
>
> Uhm... that doesn't match how I'm working in these dirs.  I'm building
> the subdirs independently all the time, especially during debugging
> sessions.  I'd not want to lose the ability to build in the
> cygwin or utils dirs independently.


Sorry for being unclear here.  What I mean here is we are currently 
handling those subdirectories as if they are independent packages, which 
could distributed and built separately.

(See discussion of AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS in [1])

[1] 
https://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/manual/autoconf-2.69/html_node/Subdirectories.html

This doesn't remove the ability to run make in those subdirectories.

> > so allowing them to be independently configured seems
> > pointless and overcomplicated.
>
>
> There's not much of a reason to allow independent configuring, I guess,
> but apart from the base configure run during a build from top-level,
> I sometimes run configure only in the dir I change or add files.


I actually skimped on writing the rules which reconfigure when needed 
when make is run in a subdirectory, as working them out seemed complex 
and a bit redundant, as when I convert to automake, it writes them for you.

I guess I should take another look at that.

> > The order in which the subdirectories are built is still a little odd,
> > as cygwin is linked with libcygserver, and cygserver is then linked with
> > cygwin. So, we build the cygwin directory first, which invokes a build
> > of libcygserver in the cygserver directory, and then build in the
> > cygserver directory to build the cygserver executable.
>
>
> Does creating a new subdir called libcygserver just to build the lib
> clean up things, perhaps?


I did experiment with something like that, but I'm not sure if it makes 
things any clearer, as:

(i) It's the same source files built with/without -D__OUTSIDE_CYGWIN__
(ii) building libcygserver requires the generated file globals.h



