# Re: [PATCH] setup.exe: Stop NetIO_HTTP from treating entire stream as a  header

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-10-22T06:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1006906033.2048.23.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1006906033.2048.23.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/19-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/10/22/06-19-00)

On Wed, 2001-11-28 at 10:52, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Nov 27, 2001 at 05:40:22PM -0600, Gary R Van Sickle wrote:
> > > On Wed, Nov 28, 2001 at 09:12:20AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > On Wed, 2001-11-28 at 05:42, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > >
> > > Regardless, I strenuously disagree with this.  It certainly is not
> > > deprecated in the Cygwin DLL.
> >
> >
> > I'm with Chris on this one, again from a self-documenting standpoint if
> > nothing else.
>


Answering both Gary and Chris..

> Yes, that's my primary motivation.  Basically, it was the way I was
> taught and the reasons for doing it that way were drilled into my
> head.


For C I agree completely. In C I am religious about using NULL for
pointers. 

> I used to really object to stuff like this, too:

... 	   ...
> which is what started this thread.  I used to inform everyone who worked
> for me not to do this.  Then I had to work on Cygwin where this
> construction is rampant.  And, I believe that it is even mentioned in
> the GNU coding standard.


I must revisit that soon :].

> So, my new internal rule is that the above is ok but foo != 0 is
> "wrong".


Why? I parse (foo) and if (foo != 0) are the same IFF foo is a simple
type (which includes pointers to objects). if (foo != NULL) is the same
as these two IFF foo is a pointer to an object. So NULL is a special
case, and thats useful in C, with it's relatively weak type checking.
C++ however has much stronger type checking, so I don't see the value in
a manual extra check like that. 

> When I test a character, I use c != '\0' and when I test a floating
> point value, I do f != 0.0.


Which is wrong BTW. To test floating point you want (abs (f) > confidence). 

> Btw, is google actually faster if someone else has just done the same
> search?  :-)


AFAIK, no. The query may not end up on the same server, so caching won't
impact it. Google has seriously distributed processing going on :].

Rob


