# Re: [PATCH] setup.exe: Stop NetIO_HTTP from treating entire stream as a  header

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-10-22T14:08:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011128002122.GA6919@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011128002122.GA6919@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/19-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/10/22/14-08-00)

On Wed, Nov 28, 2001 at 11:07:12AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> On Wed, 2001-11-28 at 10:52, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Nov 27, 2001 at 05:40:22PM -0600, Gary R Van Sickle wrote:
> > > > On Wed, Nov 28, 2001 at 09:12:20AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > > On Wed, 2001-11-28 at 05:42, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Regardless, I strenuously disagree with this.  It certainly is not
> > > > deprecated in the Cygwin DLL.
> > >
> > >
> > > I'm with Chris on this one, again from a self-documenting standpoint if
> > > nothing else.
> >
>
>
> Answering both Gary and Chris..
>
> > Yes, that's my primary motivation.  Basically, it was the way I was
> > taught and the reasons for doing it that way were drilled into my
> > head.
>
>
> For C I agree completely. In C I am religious about using NULL for
> pointers. 
>
> > I used to really object to stuff like this, too:
>
> ... 	   ...
> > which is what started this thread.  I used to inform everyone who worked
> > for me not to do this.  Then I had to work on Cygwin where this
> > construction is rampant.  And, I believe that it is even mentioned in
> > the GNU coding standard.
>
>
> I must revisit that soon :].
>
> > So, my new internal rule is that the above is ok but foo != 0 is
> > "wrong".
>
>
> Why? I parse (foo) and if (foo != 0) are the same IFF foo is a simple
> type (which includes pointers to objects). if (foo != NULL) is the same
> as these two IFF foo is a pointer to an object. So NULL is a special
> case, and thats useful in C, with it's relatively weak type checking.
> C++ however has much stronger type checking, so I don't see the value in
> a manual extra check like that. 


Why?  For the reasons that both Gary and I mentioned.  It's self
documenting?

Did you miss the point that I decided on the !foo because I had no
choice?

Do we really have to go down a rat hole for every single #&@#$
discussion?

> > When I test a character, I use c != '\0' and when I test a floating
> > point value, I do f != 0.0.
>
>
> Which is wrong BTW. To test floating point you want (abs (f) > confidence). 


Are you really so desne as to miss my point?  Apparently so.

cgf


