# Re: UTF-8 Cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | SUZUKI Hisao <suzuki611@oki.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-07-06T06:27:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [44ACAD7A.403@oki.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/44ACAD7A.403@oki.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/27/05-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/07/06/06-27-00)

Larry Hall wrote:
> SUZUKI Hisao wrote:

[snip]
> >
> > Yes, I have filled out the assignment form and have sent it to Red
> > Hat.  I hope you can adopt and adapt the patch without any legal
> > fears now ;-).
> >
> >
> > P.S.
> >
> > Based on Cygwin 1.5.20-1, I have updated the UTF-8 patch.
> >
> > In fact, I have just "diff -c"'ed the old ones and have patch'ed the
> > results to cygwin-1.5.20-1-src, except for sys_wcstombs() in
> > miscfuncs.cc.  Its definition differs from what is in cygwin-1.5.19-4.
> > I have just done a few lines of tweaks on it.
> >
> > Though I have not looked into the details yet, it seems working fine.
> > Please try it:
>


You know the modified source has been available here from the very first:

> > http://www.okisoft.co.jp/esc/utf8-cygwin/
>
>
> Sounds like things are all moving in the right direction!  Once you receive
> the "OK" from Corinna (indicating that your assignment form has arrived at
> Red Hat's headquarters), you'll want to generate a patch to submit to this
> list for discussion/approval.  The details of this process are described 
> here:
>
> <http://cygwin.com/contrib.html>
>
> Looking forward to your contribution and thanks in advance for the work!


Indeed, if you need a certain format of patch, you can make it freely.

Anyway, I append it to this mail with its "ChangeLog".  I have not
received the "OK" from Corinna yet, but the source has been and will be
open for everyone.

Sorry, but I cannot access to CVS server because of firewall.  So the
patch file was made from the cygwin-1.5.20-1-src.

370a91f5153004455e71aa0c15e83f87  ChangeLog
d6e79e15e92814da891ba4d8040e1722  utf-8-patch-07-05

-- SUZUKI Hisao


---

**Attachments:**

- [utf-8-patch-07-05](utf-8-patch-07-05) (text)
- [ChangeLog](ChangeLog) (text)
