# Re: [PATCH] Reattach trailing dirsep on existing directories too.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ray Donnelly <mingw.android@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-01-08T10:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CAOYw7dsfrz5Y2AT9E7JFVfzdKcLV3da12GEAs6KQJZaP9Jw7DA@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAOYw7dsfrz5Y2AT9E7JFVfzdKcLV3da12GEAs6KQJZaP9Jw7DA@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2013/12/22/01-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/01/08/10-49-00)

On Wed, Jan 8, 2014 at 9:20 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan  7 18:15, Ray Donnelly wrote:
> > On Tue, Jan 7, 2014 at 3:12 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Dec 22 01:03, Ray Donnelly wrote:
> > > > I hope this is OK and I've done it in the best place. Please advise if
> > > > it needs any changes.
> > >
> > >
> > > I have no idea if this is ok.  This is a patch to a very crucial
> > > function in terms of path handling, and it's not clear that this isn't
> > > doing the wrong thing.  What is this patch trying to accomplish?  Do you
> > > have example user space code which is failing for this very reason?
> >
> >
> > The exact issue was that paths that do not exist would maintain their
> > final dirsep whereas paths that do exist would lose this dirsep:
> >
> > test.exe /c/doesnt-exist/ /c/does-exist/
> >
> > test.exe would see:
> > arg1: C:/doesnt-exist/
> > arg2: C:/does-exist
> >
> > These paths were passed to GCC as search paths and while I could've
> > hacked up the GCC code to detect and correct this anomaly, but I think
> > this patch fixes the problem at cause.
>
>
> And that is a problem, because...?


.. because in this case, GCC appends sysroots directly to those
passed-in-as-#define values and I end up with e.g. C:/does-existusr/
and C:/doesnt-exist/usr/, when I always wanted the final /. Of course
I could add some nasty hacks in GCC and any other program that runs
into this odd behavioural quirk to detect and workaround it, but IMHO
fixing the quirk is a better approach.

Someone's gone to the effort to re-attach the dirsep when the folder
doesn't exist so they must have thought that preserving this was a
good idea, I've just fixed a corner case in that so the results are
consistent.
>
>
> Corinna
>
> --
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
> Red Hat



