# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-30T16:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [97aec921-d9b1-3b0e-de7a-d492832ba481@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/97aec921-d9b1-3b0e-de7a-d492832ba481@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/30/16-09-00)

On 2019-03-30 02:22, Achim Gratz wrote:
> Brian Inglis writes:
> > On 2019-03-29 14:23, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > > Brian Inglis writes:
> > > > > If you are packaging your own exes and dlls with your own local Cygwin distro,
> > > > > you should point to your local utility directory with a path in a file under
> > > > > ```
> > > > > /var/lib/rebase/user.d/$USER for each Cygwin userid on each system, or perhaps
> > > > > you might also need to add your own production exes and dlls into
> > > > > /var/cache/rebase/rebase_user and /var/cache/rebase/rebase_user_exe: see
> > > > > /usr/share/doc/Cygwin/_autorebase.README.
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > I was wondering as my first para above stated, whether rebase_user{,_exe} would
> > be the proper place to add 3rd party Cygwin dlls and exes, that are distributed
> > with Cygwin (internally)?
>
>
> Well, if you are distributing something (even just locally), then
> preferrably you make proper Cygwin packages and you will never have to
> deal with rebase yourself.
>
> The options you allude to above are meant for cases where that just
> isn't possible and so you install things without using setup and often
> also outside the Cygwin install (permanently, not temporarily until it
> gets packaged).  You still need to run setup after each change so
> autorebase can pick up on it.


Thanks Achim,

I think that those are possibly the answers the OP Michael was looking for,
depending on how they are using Gentoo Prefix: it did not seem like they were
installing their dlls and exes using Cygwin setup, but they could still run
autorebase under dash.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


