# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-09T10:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080309103618.GZ18407@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080309103618.GZ18407@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/09/10-36-00)

On Mar  9 03:32, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > > > I'm wondering if you would like to tweak the readlink functions, too.
> > > > Cygwin shortcuts can now have the path name appended to the actual
> > > > shortcut data.  This hack was necessary to support pathnames longer than
> > > > 2000 chars.  See the comment and code in cygwin/path.cc, line 3139ff.
> > >
> > >
> > > Oh, I didn't know that.  I'll add that to the list.
> >
> >
> > Thanks again.  I'm finally seeing light at the end of the long path
> > name tunnel :)
>
>
> Actually I'm a little confused now.  It seems like the code in
> utils/path.cc:readlink() reads the Win32 path out of shortcut symlinks
> but the POSIX path out of old-style symlinks -- not that it has any
> choice since they don't contain the win32 path.  If that is the case
> (and assuming I'm reading the new long filename symlink code correctly)
> then it doesn't need any chaging since the [path too long] workaround
> only applies to the POSIX link target stored in the 'description' field,
> right?


Now that you mention it... did you see the comment in path.cc, line 3112ff?
There's a good chance that Windows shortcuts are not capable of long path
names.  I didn't test it so far, but it would be certainly better for
readlink to use the POSIX path in the symlink either way.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


