# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-09T13:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080309130342.GA18407@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080309130342.GA18407@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/09/13-04-00)

On Mar  9 05:02, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Now that you mention it... did you see the comment in path.cc, line 3112ff?
> > There's a good chance that Windows shortcuts are not capable of long path
> > names.  I didn't test it so far, but it would be certainly better for
> > readlink to use the POSIX path in the symlink either way.
>
>
> Check this out.  I modified cygcheck to have a command line option to
> dump out whatever readlink() returns.
>
> ```
> $ cd /tmp
> $ echo "fileone" >fileone
> $ ln -s fileone linkone
> $ ln -s filetwo linktwo        # filetwo doesn't exist yet
> ```
>
> ```
> $ echo "filetwo" >filetwo
> $ cat linkone
> fileone
> $ cat linktwo
> ```
>
> filetwo
> $ ./cygcheck -x linkone linktwo
> linkone -> fileone
> linktwo -> c:\tmp\filetwo
> $ ls -l linkone linktwo
> lrwxrwxrwx 1 brian None 7 Mar  9 04:56 linkone -> fileone
> lrwxrwxrwx 1 brian None 7 Mar  9 04:56 linktwo -> filetwo
>
> So, the fact that the link was dangling at the time it was created
> caused readlink to read it as a Win32 path -- which also causes it to
> now be an absolute target instead of a relative target.  Apparently this
> is due to the fact that if the target doesn't exist at creation time the
> ParseDisplayName thing fails which results in a different structure for
> the .lnk file, which confuses readlink()'s puny little brain which only
> knows how to look at a fixed offset in the file, which results in it
> reading a different slot.  Sigh.


Yuk.  I guess it would help a lot to reproduce path.cc:check_shortcut(*)
in utils as close as possible.  Afaics it doesn't use any code which
would be restricted to Cygwin, except for the call to
mount_table->conv_to_posix_path in the posixify method.


Corinna

(*) and, FWIW, symlink_info::check_reparse_point and
    symlink_info::check_sysfile.

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


