# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-09T16:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080309162800.GB13754@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080309162800.GB13754@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/09/16-28-00)

On Sun, Mar 09, 2008 at 04:14:40PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar  9 10:38, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Mar 09, 2008 at 10:28:06AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Bash as well as tcsh, as well as zsh (and probbaly pdksh, too) create an
> > > environment variable $PWD.  Maybe Cygwin should create $PWD for native
> > > apps if it's not already available through the parent shell.
> >
> >
> > I'd really rather not do that.  I don't think Cygwin should be polluting
> > the environment any more than it has to.  Even if this worked, it is
> > easily defeatable by setting a PWD environment variable before running
> > cygwin, so you'd have to keep track of this value through multiple
> > levels of process invocation.
>
>
> Nothing against adding a cygwin_internal for such a purpose, but how is
> that going to work?  Assuming the MingW application is called from a
> Cygwin application.  If the parent application's cwd is a long path, the
> MingW child gets its own cwd for apparent reasons.  If it loads the
> cygwin DLL dynamically, as cygcheck already does, how is that new
> invocation of the DLL supposed to know the cwd of the parent process? 


I guess I misunderstood.  I thought that the current working directory
could be derived through some complicated combination of Nt*() calls.

> Maybe I miss something, but I don't see how that could work without
> using another mechanism to transmit the cwd of the parent application to
> the child, and the environment seems like a pretty simple way to do it.
>
> What about just using PWD if it's set, but not to invent it in Cygwin if
> it doesn't exist?  I see two situations which probably cover 99% of the
> cases. 


The problem with environment variables are that they are under the
user's control.  If the user decides to modify PWD, then it can cause
issues.  That's why I was looking for a more foolproof solution.

That + I hate the thought of adding YA special environment variable for
Cygwin to worry about.  A "real" "OS" would never consider passing stuff
around in environment variables.

cgf


