# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-09T19:55:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080309195509.GD18407@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080309195509.GD18407@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/09/19-55-00)

On Mar  9 11:03, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > I guess I misunderstood.  I thought that the current working directory
> > could be derived through some complicated combination of Nt*() calls.
>
>
> I could be wrong here but the way I understood it, there is no concept
> of a working directory at the NT level, that is something that is
> maintained by the Win32 layer.


That's right.  NT doesn't have a notion what a cwd is.  It only has the
OBJECT_ATTRIBUTES structure which defines an object by an absolute path,
or by a path relative to a directory handle.

The cwd is maintained by kernel32.dll in a per-process structure called
RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS.  The cwd is stored as path (always with
trailing backslash) and as handle.

Sometimes the Win32 functions use the cwd's path to create an absolute
path from a relative path, sometimes they use the cwd's handle and the
relative path in calls to NT functions.

> My question is, what does GetCurrentDirectoryW() return if the current
> directory is greater than the 260 limit?  Does it choke or does it
> switch to the \.\c:\foo syntax?


It can't do that.  See the MSDN man page for SetCurrentDirectory:
http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa365530(VS.85).aspx

```
 "The string must not exceed MAX_PATH characters including the
  terminating null character."

```

The problem is that the cwd is stored as UNICODE_STRING with a
statically allocated buffer in the user parameter block.  The
MaximumLength is set to 520.  SetCurrentDirectory refuses to take paths
longer than that.  In theory it would be possible to define a longer cwd
by defining a new buffer in the cwd's UNICODE_STRING.  But I never tried
that.  I don't really know if that's possible and what happens if you
call CreateProcess or, FWIW, any Win32 file access function after doing
that.  Nobody keeps us from trying, but I have this gut feeling that
different NT versions will show different behaviour...


Corinna


(*) See cygwin/ntdll.h, struct _RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS.

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


