# Re: gprof profiling of multi-threaded Cygwin programs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-02-18T10:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160218104125.GB8575@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160218104125.GB8575@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/05-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/02/18/10-41-00)

On Feb 17 22:35, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Wed, 17 Feb 2016, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 16 21:28, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > There is a behavioral change that ought to be documented somewhere:  If a
> >
> >
> > If it ought to be documented, what about providing the doc patch, too?
> > Any chance you could come up with a short section about profiling in the
> > context of winsup/doc/programming.xml?  Otherwise there's basically only
> > the description of the ssp tool in winsup/doc/utils.xml yet, which is a
> > bit ... disappointing.
>
>
> I can provide a doc patch but I could not figure out where this behavior
> change should be documented.  winsup/doc/utils.xml is concerned with tools
> written for Cygwin, but the behavior change is to bog-standard gprof from
> binutils that we're using on Cygwin.  (Note that no gprof code was changed;
> it's the system that's changed under it.)  There is no
> /usr/share/doc/Cygwin/binutils.README yet and I guess that's because there
> hasn't been a need for one.  Not sure this qualifies.


No, I was thinking of a piece of documentation within the user docs under
winsup/doc, something that can be uploaded to cygwin.com.

> It seems like a Cygwin-specific gprof man page patch is what's called for.
> Is there an example of that in the source tree I could crib from?
>
> I do see that a case could be made for general profiling documentation in
> winsup/doc/programming.xml but that's more than I want to take on at the
> moment.


It doesn't have to be part of the source patch.  It would just be nice
if you could write a few words about profiling.  I'm *not* asking for
a complete gprof doc or somehting like that, it's safe to assume that
the users of the tool know how to read man or info pages.  Therefore,
something short like gcc.xml or gdb.xml would be totally sufficient.
Even shorter than those.  Just a few words about profiling in general,
and an example would be cool.

> All your other review comments are OK by me and I'll implement those and
> resubmit the patch when that's done, including the simple doc update.
> Thanks much,


Thanks to you!


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
