# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: fchmodat: add limited support for AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-01-27T12:26:15-05:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [6aa2a33d-8cbc-a811-f37b-850620ab47f8@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/6aa2a33d-8cbc-a811-f37b-850620ab47f8@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/21-30-50.thread.md#:~:text=2021/01/27/17-26-15)

On 1/27/2021 8:27 AM, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Jan 27 08:22, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On 1/27/2021 7:40 AM, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Jan 26 16:30, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > Allow fchmodat with the AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW flag to succeed on
> > > > non-symlinks.  Previously it always failed, as it does on Linux.  But
> > > > POSIX permits it to succeed on non-symlinks even if it fails on
> > > > symlinks.
> > > >
> > > > The reason for following POSIX rather than Linux is to make gnulib
> > > > report that fchmodat works on Cygwin.  This improves the efficiency of
> > > > packages like GNU tar that use gnulib's fchmodat module.  Previously
> > > > such packages would use a gnulib replacement for fchmodat on Cygwin.
> > >
> > >
> > > Wait, what?  So if Cygwin behaves like Linux, gnulib treats fchmodat
> > > as non-working?  So what does gnulib do on a Linux system?  Does it
> > > use its own fchmodat there, too?
> >
> >
> > Apparently so.  Here's a comment from gnulib's test program for fchmodat:
> >
> > ```
> >                /* Test whether fchmodat+AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW works on non-symlinks.
> >                   This test fails on GNU/Linux with glibc 2.31 (but not on
> >                   GNU/kFreeBSD nor GNU/Hurd) and Cygwin 2.9.  */
> >
> > ```
> >
> > I agree that it's strange.
>
>
> ¯\_(ツ)_/¯


I'll go ahead and submit a revised patch for the record, and you can decide 
whether you want to deviate from Linux.  My own opinion is that it can't be bad 
to support a flag that Linux doesn't support, but I don't feel strongly about it.

BTW, the mistake in the first version of the patch is that I forgot to specify 
PC_SYM_NOFOLLOW in the path_conv constructor.

Ken


