# Re: [PATCH] Expand $CYGWIN error_start processing

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ray Donnelly <mingw.android@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-02-19T17:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CAOYw7dsc42S=0FMUZPoY5apQDft6g71WwZ0ZFLKfzO_C2EwFAA@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAOYw7dsc42S=0FMUZPoY5apQDft6g71WwZ0ZFLKfzO_C2EwFAA@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/00-26-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2014/02/19/17-53-00)

What about the token side of things? <program-name> and <process-id>?
For my use case, its important that I can do something like that too.

On Sun, Feb 9, 2014 at 8:33 PM, Christopher Faylor <> wrote:
> On Sun, Feb 09, 2014 at 12:25:40AM +0000, Ray Donnelly wrote:
> > I want to use QtCreator as my debugger but the hardcoded
> > nature of error_start makes that impossible.
> >
> > This change allows a formatted commandline to be used where
> > '|' is used to represent spaces and <program-name> and
> > <process-id> are special tokens.
> >
> > In my case, I set my CYGWIN env. var to
> > error_start:C:/Qt/bin/qtcreator.exe|-debug|<process-id>
> >
> > .. note, QtCreator doesn't work if passed the program name
> > and must be invoked with the -debug option.
> >
> > Ray Donnelly (1):
> >  * winsup/cygwin/exceptions.cc: Expand $CYGWIN error_start
> >    processing so that custom commandlines can be passed to
> >    the debugger program using '|' as an argument delimiter
> >    and <program-name> and <process-id> as special tokens.
> >
> > winsup/cygwin/exceptions.cc | 50 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++----
> > 1 file changed, 46 insertions(+), 4 deletions(-)
>
>
> Thanks for the patch but adding a new argument delimiter or way to quote
> is not something that I'm too keen on.


I didn't add a new way to quote (not that any way existed before), just
a substitute argument delimiter using '|'. It's difficult to get double
quotes and spaces into env. vars, so I worked around that
difficulty in what I think is a sensible way.

>
> I have just added, in CVS, the ability to do this:
>
> set CYGWIN=error_start="blah whatever \"more stuff'" and more"
>


Great, but what about <program-name> and <process-id>, that is the substantial
part of the patch. I can't hook up QtCreator with the fixed arguments that are
added currently, QtCreator doesn't care for the program-name and only works if
presented with <-debug process-id>

> (The above is CMD quoting style of course)
>
> cgf



