# RE: Control auto-uppercasing of environment variables

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ernie Coskrey <Ernie.Coskrey@steeleye.com> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2005-01-16T17:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [76CBF6B36306884D835E33553572BE52059ED0@steelpo](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/76CBF6B36306884D835E33553572BE52059ED0@steelpo) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/01/16/17-15-00)

No, I haven't done that.  If anybody knows of any specific tests that I need to try on a Win9X box, I'll do that.  Otherwise I'll just check general shell (bash) and some utility functionality.

Ernie Coskrey

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Larry Hall [mailto:no-personal-replies-please-lh@cygwin.com]
> Sent: Friday, January 14, 2005 11:31 PM
> To: Ernie Coskrey; cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: RE: Control auto-uppercasing of environment variables
>
>
> At 03:28 PM 1/14/2005, you wrote:
> > Well, I suppose there are some similarities between what the 
>
> uppercase_env and check_case options are used for, but 
> check_case is specifically targeted at handling case 
> sensitivity with regard to filenames, not environment 
> variables.  The subvalues of check_case are specified as 
> "levels" (relaxed, adjust, and strict), so I don't think 
> there's a clean way to use this unless we completely changed 
> the meaning of what check_case is intended to do.
> >
> > You'd also have to be able to combine subvalues - for 
>
> example, some users might want strict file checking and no 
> environment variable uppercasing, others might want relaxed 
> file checking and uppercasing of environment variables.  A 
> separate CYGWIN option seems cleaner.
>
>
> I agree.  
>
> I only glanced quickly at your patch but the new behavior 
> doesn't distinguish
> between 9x and NT platforms.  As I recall, and I may be 
> mistaken, 9x needed
> the environment upper-cased to work.  Did you try your patch on a 9x 
> platform?
>
>
>
> --
> Larry Hall                              http://www.rfk.com
> RFK Partners, Inc.                      (508) 893-9779 - RFK Office
> 838 Washington Street                   (508) 893-9889 - FAX
> Holliston, MA 01746                     
>
>



