# Re: flock deadlock

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-01-08T17:32:12+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20260108173212.b7dacf40c4fe3f2d94c6c234@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20260108173212.b7dacf40c4fe3f2d94c6c234@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/14-05-11.thread.md#:~:text=2026/01/08/08-32-12)

Hi Corinna,

Thanks for the review.

On Wed, 7 Jan 2026 11:52:21 +0100
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Takashi,
>
> On Jan  3 23:05, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > On Sun, 28 Dec 2025 11:52:36 -0800
> > Nahor <nahor.j+cygwin@gmail.com> wrote:
> > > Attached is a reproducible example.
> > > The example just calls `fork()` then open/flock/close a directory and
> > > repeats (fork/open/flock/close). The forks optionally sleep then
> > > open/flock/close the same directory and exit.
> > >
> > > There is no issue if either the parent or the children don't call `flock()`.
> > > Without sleeping, the example deadlocks immediately on my system 100%
> > > of the time. Killing the child allow the parent to proceed, fork the
> > > next child, which triggers the next deadlock.
> > > When sleeping, _sometimes_ one child will deadlock with the parent.
> > > Killing that child allows the parent and remaining children to proceed
> > > (and potentially trigger another deadlock). Killing the parent also
> > > unblocks all the children.
> >
> >
> > Thanks for the report and the test case.
> > I looked into the issue and found the cause. I also confirmed that
> > the patch attached solves the issue.
> >
> > Could anyone please review the patch?
> >
> > -- 
> > Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>
> >
> > From 5b0a3fac8c6f4f56626d108a2dfa9738f73ecf6b Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> > From: Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>
> > Date: Sat, 3 Jan 2026 21:53:36 +0900
> > Subject: [PATCH] Cygwin: close: Do not lock fdtab
> >
> > Otherwise, a deadlock can occur if the child process attempts to
> > lock a file while the parent process is closing the same file, which
> > is already locked. The deadlock mechanism is as follows.
> >
> > When the child process attempts to lock a file, it notifies the parent
> > process by calling CreateRemoteThread(), which creates a remote thread
> > in the parent. That thread checks whether the file being locked is
> > currently opened in the parent. During the operation, cygheap->fdtab
> > is temporarily locked in order to enumerate the file descriptors.
> >
> > However, if the parent process is closing the same file at that moment,
> > it also locks fdtab via cygheap_fdget cfd(fd, true) in __close().
> > If the parent acquires th fdtab lock first, it proceeds to call
> > del_my_locks(), which attempts to lock the inode in inode_t:get().
> >
> > At this point, the inode is already locked in the child,
> > so the parent waits for the child to release the inode. Meanwhile,
> > the child is waiting to acquire the fdtab lock, which is still held
> > by the parent. As a result, the parent and child become deadlocked.
> >
> > However, since close_all_files() and close_range() do not lock fdtab,
>
>
> close_all_files() is called from _exit(), so there's no reason to lock
> fdtab.  close_range() locks fdtab explicitly right after EINVAL
> handling.
>
> Since close() is a process manipulating the fdtab, I have a bad feeling
> to perform the action unlocked.  Wouldn't it make more sense to
> enumerate without locking in create_lock_in_parent()?


I agree. I submitted v2 patch.

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


