# RE: [Patch]: mkdir -p and network drives

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Vance Turner <vance.turner@sbcglobal.net> |
| **To** | 'Pierre A. Humblet' <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-19T05:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050519050600.x2J9LoYSP0ZaHMiLX3bR5KuYMiYnldTiljfN4bNsK5Y@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050519050600.x2J9LoYSP0ZaHMiLX3bR5KuYMiYnldTiljfN4bNsK5Y@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/19/05-06-00)

I usually don't write you guys, I follow the thread to see how development
is going.

Just a note. The ls command is't quite right.

 Ls -lRC wil not recursively list the files and directories in verbose mode.
The l flag seems to be ignored.

-----Original Message-----
From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com
[mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Pierre A. Humblet
Sent: Wednesday, May 18, 2005 11:42 AM
To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
Subject: Re: [Patch]: mkdir -p and network drives


----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Corinna Vinschen"
To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Wednesday, May 18, 2005 12:48 PM
Subject: Re: [Patch]: mkdir -p and network drives


> Hi Pierre,
>
> I don't see a reason why you moved telldir just a few lines up.
> Any reasoning, perhaps together with a ChangeLog entry?


Nope, it was an accidental cut and I pasted it back a few lines off.

>
> Why did you remove fhandler_cygdrive::telldir but not
> fhandler_cygdrive::seekdir?  Both are just calling their base class
> variants.


I am still working on  fhandler_cygdrive. I stopped to keep the size
of the patch small.

> > -  else if (isvirtual_dev (dev.devn) && fileattr ==
>

INVALID_FILE_ATTRIBUTES)
> > -    {
> > -      error = dev.devn == FH_NETDRIVE ? ENOSHARE : ENOENT;
> > -      return;
> > -    }
>
>
> I don't understand this one.  What's the rational behind removing
> these lines?


- They won't work the day we support writing to the registry.
- More generally, I think it's cleaner to do device specific error handling
in the fhandlers, instead of adding conditionals in path.cc
- In the case where one tries to create a file or directory on a virtual
device,
one gets EROFS with this patch, instead of ENOSHARE or ENOENT before.
That seems more logical.

Pierre






