# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Export <io.h> symbols with underscore

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-02-22T08:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130222084951.GJ28458@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130222084951.GJ28458@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/21-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/02/22/08-50-00)

On Feb 22 09:00, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 22 01:51, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 12:18:48AM -0600, Yaakov wrote:
> > > On Thu, 21 Feb 2013 14:42:36 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > I wasn't fulling grokking the fact that Cygwin explicitly defined the
> > > > get_osfhandle without an underscore in io.h.  Sigh.  That's probably my
> > > > fault too.
> > > >
> > > > But we definitely shouldn't be going back to adding "_" decorations.  I
> > > > have deleted a few of these and no one has complained.  I know that
> > > > isn't a scientific sampling but it's hard to believe that someone has
> > > > written code which actually goes out of its way to prepend an underscore
> > > > in front of a standard UNIX function name, especially since we do not,
> > > > AFAIK, define these functions in any header file.
> > > >
> > > > So, I guess I don't understand why we need to add an underscore now
> > > > when we have gotten by with the incorrect declaration for get_osfhandle
> > > > all of these years.
> > >
> > >
> > > Because even if it caused a warning in C, the link still succeeded with
> > > the underscored symbol.
> >
> >
> > Ok.  I think we should also change io.h to only define _get_osfhandle on
> > both 64-bit and the trunk version of cygwin.  Ditto for _setmode.  And,
> > IMO, the access() declaration should be removed from io.h entirely.
>
>
> access should go, no doubt about it.
>
> For get_osfhandle and setmode I would prefer maintaining backward
> compatibility with existing applications.  Both variations, with and
> without underscore are definitely in use.
>
> What about exporting the underscored variants only, but define the
> non-underscored ones:
>
> ```
>   extern long _get_osfhandle(int);
>   #define get_osfhandle(i) _get_osfhandle(i)
>
>   extern int _setmode (int __fd, int __mode);
>   #define setmode(f,m) _setmode((f),(m))
> ```
>


Just to be clear:  On 32 bit we should keep the exported symbols, too.
On 64 bit we can drop the non-underscored ones (which just requires
to rebuild gawk for me) and only keep the defines for backward
compatibility.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


