# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Export <io.h> symbols with underscore

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-02-22T15:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130222154729.GI22106@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130222154729.GI22106@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/21-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/02/22/15-47-00)

On Feb 22 10:27, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 03:44:48PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 22 09:32, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Fri, Feb 22, 2013 at 11:02:55AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Feb 22 10:51, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Feb 22 03:40, Yaakov wrote:
> > > > > > On Fri, 22 Feb 2013 09:49:51 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > > > access should go, no doubt about it.
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > For get_osfhandle and setmode I would prefer maintaining backward
> > > > > > > > compatibility with existing applications.  Both variations, with and
> > > > > > > > without underscore are definitely in use.
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > What about exporting the underscored variants only, but define the
> > > > > > > > non-underscored ones:
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > > ```
> > > > > > > >   extern long _get_osfhandle(int);
> > > > > > > >   #define get_osfhandle(i) _get_osfhandle(i)
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > > >   extern int _setmode (int __fd, int __mode);
> > > > > > > >   #define setmode(f,m) _setmode((f),(m))
> > > > > > > > ```
> > > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > Just to be clear:  On 32 bit we should keep the exported symbols, too.
> > > > > > > On 64 bit we can drop the non-underscored ones (which just requires
> > > > > > > to rebuild gawk for me) and only keep the defines for backward
> > > > > > > compatibility.
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Like this?
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Almost.  The _setmode needs a tweak, too.  I also think it makes
> > > > > sense to rename the functions inside of syscalls.cc:
> > > > > [...]
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I applied this patch to the 64 bit branch for now.
> > >
> > >
> > > I was actually expecting that we'd break the compilation of existing
> > > applications which incorrectly referenced get_osfhandle and setmode (I
> > > have a couple of those).  It's a simple fix if someone recompiles and
> > > it wouldn't be the first time that you'd have to make a source code
> > > change when upreving to a new "OS".  For 32-bit we would need to keep
> > > both in cygwin.din though, of course.
> >
> >
> > I'm trying to keep up with backward compatibility on the source level
> > as far as it makes sense (for a given value of "sense").
>
>
> Yeah, but I worry about carrying cruft like this around forever.  I know
> it's a mile pain for the person who copmiles programs but it shouldn't
> be that big a deal to add an underscore.


Alternatively, we We keep exporting the unloved symbols and add an
__attribute__ ((deprecated)) in the header, as we did for
cygwin_conv_to_win32_path and friends.  

> > > But, if you're going to use defines, why not just simplify them as:
> > >
> > > ```
> > > #define get_osfhandle _get_osfhandle
> > > #define setmode _setmode
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > I can do that, but I thought error messages would be more meaningful
> > when using macros with arguments.  Dunno, I was just trying to do
> > it right.  Shall I still simplify them?
>
>
> I don't know.  If you use your method and say, for example setmode(x)
> you'll get an error about a macro lacking arguments.  If you said
> setmode ((char *) foo) you'd get an error about the '_setmode' function.
> If you defined the macro without arguments you'd get a compiler error
> referencing '_setmode' in both cases.  I guess I'd want this to be
> consistent but I don't really care that much.


Me neither.  I can define them just by name, but that depends on the
above decision.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


