# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Implement 'reserved' marker in fdtable entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-06-08T14:10:54+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [dd93e38a-84ff-8440-1b1d-fbea31fa6298@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/dd93e38a-84ff-8440-1b1d-fbea31fa6298@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/22/07-28-19.thread.md#:~:text=2026/06/08/12-10-54)

On Sat, 30 May 2026 12:33, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 22/05/2026 15:21, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 22/05/2026 08:28, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > ...
> > > >
> > > > The notion is that an fdtable entry provided by cygheap_fdnew is 
> > > > marked
> > > > so that another thread can't obtain it.  Care is taken to reset the
> > > > marker when the entry is no longer needed.  Actually, in the usual 
> > > > case
> > > > the marker is overwritten with a pointer to an fhandler_base 
> > > > structure,
> > > > by the reserving thread, as the syscall completes.
> > > >
> > > > Reported-by: Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de>
> > > > Addresses: https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2026-May/259664.html
> > > > Signed-off-by: Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com>
> > > > Fixes: e859706578ba (* autoload.cc (NtCreateFile): Add.)
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks!
> > >
> > > This all seems fine and reasonable, but I have a couple of small 
> > > comments.
> >
> >
> > A test with an enhanced version of the STC was successful.
> > I could push this version (attached) to cygwin-apps/stc if desired.
>
>
> Yes, that would be great. Please do so.


Done.


>
> (I guess ideally after the fix is committed so it stays green, but 
> it's red at the moment and I severely lack the time to investigate 
> why...)


Some STC (e.g. trace-sigsegv) ocasionally fail when run as part of the 
Cygwin CI workflow. Timing issues?

Could not reproduce this neither locally nor at GH.

I would suggest to add this to stc.yml to allow manual tests independent 
from push:
https://github.com/chrfranke/cygwin-stc/commit/5c157ff6

-- 
Regards,
Christian



