# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Implement 'reserved' marker in fdtable entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2026-06-08T14:30:31+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [a2f5c1a9-dd8a-4c7a-8b82-05188e5abc98@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/a2f5c1a9-dd8a-4c7a-8b82-05188e5abc98@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/22/07-28-19.thread.md#:~:text=2026/06/08/13-30-31)

On 08/06/2026 13:10, Christian Franke wrote:
> On Sat, 30 May 2026 12:33, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 22/05/2026 15:21, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 22/05/2026 08:28, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > > ...
> > > > >
> > > > > The notion is that an fdtable entry provided by cygheap_fdnew is 
> > > > > marked
> > > > > so that another thread can't obtain it.  Care is taken to reset the
> > > > > marker when the entry is no longer needed.  Actually, in the usual 
> > > > > case
> > > > > the marker is overwritten with a pointer to an fhandler_base 
> > > > > structure,
> > > > > by the reserving thread, as the syscall completes.
> > > > >
> > > > > Reported-by: Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de>
> > > > > Addresses: https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2026-May/259664.html
> > > > > Signed-off-by: Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com>
> > > > > Fixes: e859706578ba (* autoload.cc (NtCreateFile): Add.)
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Thanks!
> > > >
> > > > This all seems fine and reasonable, but I have a couple of small 
> > > > comments.
> > >
> > >
> > > A test with an enhanced version of the STC was successful.
> > > I could push this version (attached) to cygwin-apps/stc if desired.
> >
> >
> > Yes, that would be great. Please do so.
>
>
> Done.
>
>
> >
> > (I guess ideally after the fix is committed so it stays green, but 
> > it's red at the moment and I severely lack the time to investigate 
> > why...)
>
>
> Some STC (e.g. trace-sigsegv) ocasionally fail when run as part of the 
> Cygwin CI workflow. Timing issues?
>
> Could not reproduce this neither locally nor at GH.


That one seems to sporadically fail, but only on aarch64 runner.

> I would suggest to add this to stc.yml to allow manual tests independent 
> from push:
> https://github.com/chrfranke/cygwin-stc/commit/5c157ff6


Yes, that seems like a good idea.

Oh lol, it seems like I meant to have this run the x86_64 tests on an 
aarch64 runner as well as an x86_64 runner, but got distracted halfway 
through...

I've tweaked your change slightly so we just run on both always.

Thanks very much!


