# Re: pthreads works, sorta

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Greg Smith <gsmith@nc.rr.com>, Cygwin General MailList <cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-06-26T05:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [00ab01c0fe39$41ece8d0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/00ab01c0fe39$41ece8d0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/26/05-10-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>


>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Greg Smith" <gsmith@nc.rr.com>
> To: "Cygwin General MailList" <cygwin@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Tuesday, June 26, 2001 12:21 PM
> Subject: Re: pthreads works, sorta
>
>
> > Robert Collins wrote:
> > > >
> > > > My (heavily threaded) application runs approximately 100x
> > > > slower than under linux and proceeds to the point where the
> > > > program thrashes because it is calling pthreads functions
> > > > faster than the pthreads implementation can deliver (we're
> > > > talking _mutex_lock/unlock and _cond_wait/signal here).
> > >
> > >
> > > Condition variables we can't do much about here, other than trying
> >
>
> to
> > > get down to the metal and rewrite em without OS support. I'm not
> >
>
> keen to
> > > try that, for what I hope are obvious reasons.
> >
> >
> > True.
> >
>
>
> I've just reviewed my reading, and it doesn't look as though critical
> sections are going to be _much_ faster.
>
> --> Greg, do you know that your issue is thread syncronisation
> performance, or performance of I/O or other posix calls in between ?

You
> program shouldn't crash unless it manages to deadlock or trigger a
> race... certainly the pthread calls cannot happen except when your
> threads are active and have got cpu :].
>
> How many concurrent threads and mutexs and cond variables are we

talking
> here?
>


Also, if you use pthread_cond_timedwait, you might like to try the
attached patch, it fixes a misinterpretation of the time parameter in
the spec. That slight reading error would cause huge (potentially years
long!) delays. Threads would appear to hang... etc.

Changelog:
Tue Jun 26 22:10:00 2001  Robert Collins rbtcollins@hotmail.com

    * thread.cc (pthread_cond::TimedWait): Check for WAIT_TIMEOUT as
well as WAIT_ABANDONED.
    (__pthread_cond_timedwait): Calculate a relative wait from the
abstime parameter.

Rob



---

**Attachments:**

- [condtimedwaitisabsolute.patch](condtimedwaitisabsolute.patch) (text)
