# RE: Deadly embrace between pthread_cond_wait and pthread_cond_signal

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Norman Vine <nhv@cape.com> |
| **To** | 'Jason Tishler' <Jason.Tishler@dothill.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-06-26T13:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [006a01c0fe7b$7f0d8980$a300a8c0@nhv](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/006a01c0fe7b$7f0d8980$a300a8c0@nhv) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-34-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/26/13-00-00)

Jason Tishler writes:
>
>
> On Tue, Jun 26, 2001 at 10:27:49AM -0400, Norman Vine wrote:
> > Since my last correspondance with Jason I have tested this with
> > the 'stock'  Python-2.1 tarball and all seems to be OK
>
>
> How long does it take to run the regression tests (sans test_poll)?


A long time :-( < several hours >
the re, sre and various unicode tests seem to take forever
I will add a timer to the python regression test to time each
module tested and post the results.

> > I am experiencing an occasional 'hang' in the make process
> > this is on WIn2k sp2 and the 'very latest' Cygwin files.
> > Usually a 'ctrl-C' will abort the make and a subsequent make
> > will  run to completion.  This make behaviour is not isolated to the
> > Python build but I have not been able to find a situation that will
> > reliably reproduce it.
>
>
> FWIW, I am experiencing the "hang" under Windows NT 4.0 SP5.  However,
> for me, the hang is with Python (with threads) and not make itself.
>
> IIRC, during the make I see two python processes.  After killing the
> make, I still see one python process that needs to be manually killed.
> Please do a ps before and after you kill the make.  Are you observing
> this behavior or something different?


FYI
I have rebuilt the Python-2.1 tarball several times today and the make never
hung
This is using today's CVS Cygwin files.

I wonder if the difference is because I am on Win2k and you are on NT ?

Cheers

Norman


