# Re: Add cygwin_internal CW_GET_MODULE_PATH_FOR_ADDR

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-10-13T14:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20111013144241.GA22854@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20111013144241.GA22854@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/10/13/14-43-00)

On Oct 13 10:20, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > From discussions with Bruno Haible about the slowness of full relocation
>
> support in libintl and libiconv, he said:
>
> >   - The Cygwin API only allows me to get _all_ file names behind all
> >     addresses across the entire current process, and this is slow.
>
>
> (talking about parsing /proc/self/maps)
>
> >   - It would be useful to have a Cygwin API that gives me the file
> >     file name behind one particular address in the current process.
> >     This should not be that slow.
>
>
> This patch is a proof of concept for the latter.  Naturally, it needs
> additional work -- updating version.h, real changelog entries,
> documentation somewhere, etc.  But...is it worth the effort?  Is
> something like this likely to be accepted?


The first and foremost question is, what is the relocation support
in libintl trying to accomplish?  Why does a internationalization
library has to know the path of a module based on an address?
Is that a functionality required on other POSIX systems?

Can we discuss this on cygwin-developers first, please?  So far I doubt
that this makes any sense on Cygwin.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


