# Re: [PATCH] Re: Cygwin select() issues and improvements

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-05-20T09:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160520091549.GA15115@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160520091549.GA15115@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/14/08-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/05/20/09-16-00)

On May 18 20:02, john hood wrote:
> On 5/18/16 3:23 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi John,
> >
> > On May  8 16:43, john hood wrote:
> > > On 3/29/16 8:49 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > John, ping?
> > >
> > >
> > > Sorry it took so long to reply, but I finally got around to cleaning up
> > > the patchset, I've mailed it separately.
> >
> >
> > I don't see the patchset anywhere.  Did I miss your mail or did it
> > fail to make it to this list?!?
>
>
> It never made it to the list.  Some aspect of my network's email config
> (I still haven't figured out what) caused email sent directly by my
> workstation to be dropped by the sourceware.org mail server.  I changed
> it to use my mail server instead and that worked.


Probably some trusted server test.  I don't remember how the method is
called but it's used by quite a lot of mail servers (and equally quite
a lot don't...)

> > > I was pretty frustrated at my
> > > slow Windows machine and the friction in dealing with the project,
> >
> >
> > What friction?  Was there anything I or others did to alienate you?
> > If there's some problem, please also feel free to discuss on the
> > #cygwin-developers IRC channel @Freenode.  You're apparently lurking
> > anyway.
>
>
> The slow Windows machine is probably the larger part of that.  It's a
> netbook-class machine.  It's very slow; development on it was rather
> unpleasant.  I just set up a VM with a Windows 10 preview on a fast
> machine-- it's around four times faster.
>
> But also, working with the email-and-patches style of work that you have
> here is really considerably more work than working with projects on
> GitHub (I'm a maintainer of a project there) or GitLab.


Linux kernel development works the same way and it works pretty well.
Also, git makes it very easy to create and send patches and patchsets
via git format-patch and git send-email.  It's an improvement on an
almost excessive scale compared to CVS 'til early 2015 :)


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
