# [patch] dump service info in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-22T19:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4290DC81.8311E428@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4290DC81.8311E428@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-23-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/22/19-23-00)


(Okay, this time I hope this is the correct mailing list since this lives in
winsup/utils.)

Here is a first stab at the aforementioned patch to dump service information for
"cygcheck -s".  If you do not provide "-v" then you get the condensed output
(i.e. "cygrunsrv -Q service" for each service), otherwise you get the full
output of cygrunsrv -LV.  This has logic to deal with the following conditions:

- Not running NT
- cygrunsrv package not installed or can't execute
- cygrunsrv is older than v1.10
- no services installed

It also acts in the same way as the other "cygcheck -s" checks, in that if -h is
given it is slightly more verbose.

I used existing code that calls '/bin/id.exe' as a model, so that it looks up
the location in the mounts rather than searching the path.

I also changed 'Cygnus' to 'Cygwin' in an unrelated printf that I happened to
notice.  Not sure if that's desired or not but I would imagine most direct
references to Cygnus are probably anachronisms.

Brian

2005-05-22  Brian Dessent  <brian@dessent.net>

	* cygcheck.cc (dump_sysinfo_services): Add new function that uses
	new cygrunsrv options to dump service info.
	(dump_sysinfo): Call dump_sysinfo_services if running under NT.
	Change 'Cygnus' to 'Cygwin' in output.


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck_services.patch](cygcheck_services.patch) (text)
