# Re: utimensat UTIME_NOW granularity bug

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <ebb9@byu.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-09T03:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ACEACBA.4030904@byu.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ACEACBA.4030904@byu.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/09/03-24-00)

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

According to Christopher Faylor on 10/8/2009 3:24 PM:
> > I think we need to implement a companion to systime(), which returns the system 
> > time without any truncation, so that the function clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME) 
> > can report time with resolution to the 10th of a microsecond rather than to 
> > plain microseconds.  Then utimensat needs to use clock_gettime rather than 
> > gettimeofday, so that it is not needlessly truncating the 10th of microsecond 
> > resolution available from Windows.
>
>
> Why not send these type of musings to the cygwin-developers list?  It really
> is more appropriate for this type of discussion.


Sorry about the wrong list.  At any rate, what about this patch?

2009-10-08  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>

	* hires.h (hires_ms): Change initime_us to initime_ns, with 10x
	more resolution.
	(hires_ms::nsecs): New prototype.
	(hires_ms::usecs, hires_ms::msecs, hires_ms::uptime): Adjust.
	* times.cc (NSPERMS, MILLION, BILLION): New helper macros; use
	throughout to avoid long runs of 0.
	(systime_ns): New helper function.
	(hires_ms::prime): Use it for more resolution.
	(hires_ms::usecs): Change to...
	(hires_ms::nsecs): ...with more resolution.
	(clock_gettime): Use more resolution.
	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (utimens_fs): Get current time before
	opening handle, using higher resolution.

- --
Don't work too hard, make some time for fun as well!

Eric Blake             ebb9@byu.net
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Cygwin)
Comment: Public key at home.comcast.net/~ericblake/eblake.gpg
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/

iEYEARECAAYFAkrOrLcACgkQ84KuGfSFAYDtcwCfRjSI0jqSvLb+TDcy/Exir4UP
edAAoKYrSYJoqLY9pfQmcLe3eedH8bas
=tgjw
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin.patch30](cygwin.patch30) (text)
