# Re: utimensat UTIME_NOW granularity bug

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-09T04:58:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091009045800.GA17335@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091009045800.GA17335@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/09/04-58-00)

On Thu, Oct 08, 2009 at 09:23:38PM -0600, Eric Blake wrote:
> -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
> Hash: SHA1
>
> According to Christopher Faylor on 10/8/2009 3:24 PM:
> > > I think we need to implement a companion to systime(), which returns the system 
> > > time without any truncation, so that the function clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME) 
> > > can report time with resolution to the 10th of a microsecond rather than to 
> > > plain microseconds.  Then utimensat needs to use clock_gettime rather than 
> > > gettimeofday, so that it is not needlessly truncating the 10th of microsecond 
> > > resolution available from Windows.
> >
> >
> > Why not send these type of musings to the cygwin-developers list?  It really
> > is more appropriate for this type of discussion.
>
>
> Sorry about the wrong list.  At any rate, what about this patch?
>
> 2009-10-08  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>
>
> 	* hires.h (hires_ms): Change initime_us to initime_ns, with 10x
> 	more resolution.
> 	(hires_ms::nsecs): New prototype.
> 	(hires_ms::usecs, hires_ms::msecs, hires_ms::uptime): Adjust.
> 	* times.cc (NSPERMS, MILLION, BILLION): New helper macros; use
> 	throughout to avoid long runs of 0.
> 	(systime_ns): New helper function.
> 	(hires_ms::prime): Use it for more resolution.
> 	(hires_ms::usecs): Change to...
> 	(hires_ms::nsecs): ...with more resolution.
> 	(clock_gettime): Use more resolution.
> 	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (utimens_fs): Get current time before
> 	opening handle, using higher resolution.


I don't like "MILLION" or "BILLION".  I think a real number is clearer
for that.  Maybe it's jsut me but when I see million I can't help myself
from checking to see if it's 1000000 or 1024*1024.  And, if you're going
to assign constants to 1 with a bunch of zeros where do you draw the
line?

It looks like you either don't need the systime() call or it should
call systime_ns.

> ```diff
>       long long x = time_in->tv_sec * NSPERSEC +
> -			    time_in->tv_nsec / (NSPERSEC/100000) + FACTOR;
> +			    time_in->tv_nsec / (BILLION / NSPERSEC) + FACTOR;
> ```
>


I'm too tired now to figure out why you switched these but it seems
odd that you switched the numerator and denominator  here but

> ```
>       out->dwHighDateTime = x >> 32;
>       out->dwLowDateTime = x;
>     }
> ```
>
> ```diff
> @@ -202,7 +217,7 @@ void __stdcall
> ```
>
> timeval_to_filetime (const struct timeval *time_in, FILETIME *out)
> {
> ```diff
>   long long x = time_in->tv_sec * NSPERSEC +
> -			time_in->tv_usec * (NSPERSEC/1000000) + FACTOR;
> +			time_in->tv_usec * (NSPERSEC / MILLION) + FACTOR;
> ```
>


not here.

cgf


