# Re: utimensat UTIME_NOW granularity bug

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-09T09:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091009091722.GA8983@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091009091722.GA8983@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/09/09-17-00)

On Oct  9 00:58, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Thu, Oct 08, 2009 at 09:23:38PM -0600, Eric Blake wrote:
> > Sorry about the wrong list.  At any rate, what about this patch?
> >
> > 2009-10-08  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>
> >
> > 	* hires.h (hires_ms): Change initime_us to initime_ns, with 10x
> > 	more resolution.
> > 	(hires_ms::nsecs): New prototype.
> > 	(hires_ms::usecs, hires_ms::msecs, hires_ms::uptime): Adjust.
> > 	* times.cc (NSPERMS, MILLION, BILLION): New helper macros; use
> > 	throughout to avoid long runs of 0.
> > 	(systime_ns): New helper function.
> > 	(hires_ms::prime): Use it for more resolution.
> > 	(hires_ms::usecs): Change to...
> > 	(hires_ms::nsecs): ...with more resolution.
> > 	(clock_gettime): Use more resolution.
> > 	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (utimens_fs): Get current time before
> > 	opening handle, using higher resolution.
>
>
> I don't like "MILLION" or "BILLION".  I think a real number is clearer
> for that.  Maybe it's jsut me but when I see million I can't help myself
> from checking to see if it's 1000000 or 1024*1024.  And, if you're going
> to assign constants to 1 with a bunch of zeros where do you draw the
> line?


I agree for another reason as well.  In the English language area it's
common to call the value 1*10^9 a "billion", while in other, non-english
areas, that's a "milliard", and a "billion" is actually 1*10^12.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_and_short_scales

That's too ambiguous for my taste.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


