# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-30T19:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030830152207.007bde60@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030830152207.007bde60@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/30/19-23-00)

At 11:55 AM 8/29/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> On Fri, Aug 29, 2003 at 10:19:22AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > I was heartened to see that zsh did not crash when I sicc'ed this
> > > program on it -- until I tried to type something at the zsh prompt and
> > > saw that it was hung.  The reason was that the recursive signal call
> > > stuff was still not right.  We were restoring the return address
> > > incorrectly.  AFAICT, we really do have to use the stored
> > > retaddr_on_stack to rectify setup_handler's inappropriate "fixup" of
> > > the return address.  Restoring it to 36(%%esp) wasn't right.
> >
> >
> > Wow.  What was wrong?  After you noticed that one could remove
> > movl    %%esp,%%ebp
> > addl    $36,%%ebp
> > before the call to set_process_mask, I though eveything made perfect
> > sense.  After returning from the (user) signal handler and pulling off
> > the argument, both the esp and ebp should be exactly as before the
> > call.  It that's not true, the whole stack model of programming breaks
> > down.
>
>
> The code that was there put the return address of the nested call onto the
> stack for the return of the initial signal handler.  I just changed it
> to mimic what call_signal_handler_now does.


FWIW, I have identified the error in my reasoning.
I was assuming the return address from the initial handler to be 
"interruptible" (makes sense, otherwise the handler shouldn't have started
there...).

When it is, retaddr_on_stack is identical to esp + 36 and the code was OK.

However there is one case where it is not: when the handler is called
by sigframe::call_signal_handler from sig_dispatch_pending.

Pierre


