# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-30T20:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030830203246.GA19303@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030830203246.GA19303@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/30/20-32-00)

On Sat, Aug 30, 2003 at 03:22:07PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 11:55 AM 8/29/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> > On Fri, Aug 29, 2003 at 10:19:22AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > I was heartened to see that zsh did not crash when I sicc'ed this
> > > > program on it -- until I tried to type something at the zsh prompt and
> > > > saw that it was hung.  The reason was that the recursive signal call
> > > > stuff was still not right.  We were restoring the return address
> > > > incorrectly.  AFAICT, we really do have to use the stored
> > > > retaddr_on_stack to rectify setup_handler's inappropriate "fixup" of
> > > > the return address.  Restoring it to 36(%%esp) wasn't right.
> > >
> > >
> > > Wow.  What was wrong?  After you noticed that one could remove
> > > movl    %%esp,%%ebp
> > > addl    $36,%%ebp
> > > before the call to set_process_mask, I though eveything made perfect
> > > sense.  After returning from the (user) signal handler and pulling off
> > > the argument, both the esp and ebp should be exactly as before the
> > > call.  It that's not true, the whole stack model of programming breaks
> > > down.
> >
> >
> > The code that was there put the return address of the nested call onto the
> > stack for the return of the initial signal handler.  I just changed it
> > to mimic what call_signal_handler_now does.
>
>
> FWIW, I have identified the error in my reasoning.
> I was assuming the return address from the initial handler to be 
> "interruptible" (makes sense, otherwise the handler shouldn't have started
> there...).
>
> When it is, retaddr_on_stack is identical to esp + 36 and the code was
> OK.
>
> However there is one case where it is not: when the handler is called
> by sigframe::call_signal_handler from sig_dispatch_pending.


retaddr_on_stack is not always going to be identical to esp + 36 no
matter where it comes from.  I modified my test program to tickle the
previous problem.  I've included it below.  You can short circuit the
sig_dispatch_pending functioni and it will still report different
retaddr_on_stack values -- as it should.  kill is getting called from
different stack depths.

I didn't notice this before since the SIGHUP signal is masked in
'ouch()' function so a call to ouch() wouldn't be made until the mask
was removed.  Changing the code to call another, unmasked signal, whose
handler is dispatched immediately, shows (in the debugger) that
retaddr_on_stack is different.

cgf


---

**Attachments:**

- [killit.c](killit.c) (text)
