# Re: fix cond_race... was RE: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-28T00:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010928035840.A2535@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010928035840.A2535@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/28/00-57-00)

Rob,
Why not just check them both in?

I don't know if anyone is familiar enough with the *threads.cc code
to comment on your changes so if you have a fix that you think works,
then why not just check it in?

Btw, I do have one minor nit:  I think that the spelling is 'verifiable'
not 'verifyable'.

cgf
On Fri, Sep 28, 2001 at 06:01:41PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> BTW: this patch is additiive to the earlier fix for the rentrancy
> problem with pthread_mutex_lock - apply them both.
>
> Rob
>
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Robert Collins 
> > Sent: Friday, September 28, 2001 5:48 PM
> > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > Subject: fix cond_race... was RE: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog 
> > thread.cc
> > thread.h ...
> >
> >
> > Well this patch should make evreything good -  fixing the critical
> > section induced race.
> >
> > Going out now, this is being sent in for feedback and testing. I will
> > craft changelog etc from home in about 6-12 hours.
> >
> > Rob
> >
> > > -----Original Message-----
> > > From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ]
> > > Sent: Friday, September 28, 2001 5:27 PM
> > > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > > Subject: Re: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...
> > >
> > >
> > > On Fri, Sep 28, 2001 at 11:05:34AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> > > > Hi!
> > > >
> > > > Friday, 28 September, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > > ```
> > > > > >  320 12080627 [main] ssh 7436 peek_pipe: /dev/piper, saw EOF
> > > > > >  261 12080888 [main] ssh 7436 peek_pipe: saw eof on '/dev/piper'
> > > > > >  238 12081126 [main] ssh 7436 
> > > > > > ```
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > > fhandler_pipe::ready_for_read: returning 1
> > > >
> > > > CF> As usual, I can't duplicate this problem.  I did see one 
> > >
> > > oddity in some of the new
> > > > CF> code that I added.  I'll check in a patch for that shortly.
> > > >
> > > > Your last checkin fixed both cvs+ssh and testsuite's kill02 (it was
> > > > blocking on pipe read too) problems for me. Thanks!
> > >
> > >
> > > Phew.  I am now noticing a SEGV in zsh when it tries to run 
> > > perl, though.
> > >
> > > Could that be due to pthread_mutex problems in passwd.cc and grp.cc?
> > >
> > > cgf
> > >
> >
> >
>


-- 
cgf@cygnus.com                        Red Hat, Inc.
http://sources.redhat.com/            http://www.redhat.com/


