# Re: [PATCH] cygwin_internal methods to get/set thread name

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-12-22T15:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20171222151654.GA4063@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20171222151654.GA4063@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/12/22/15-17-00)

On Dec 22 13:30, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 22/12/2017 09:48, Mark Geisert wrote:
> >
> > I'd still like to get a vote of acceptance for what I've called the
> > "courtesy" code in cygthread.cc, cygthread::name method.  The method is
> > called with a Windows tid and that tid is looked up in the table of
> > cygthreads.  If found, you immediately have the thread's name.  I added
> > code on the failure path for the case where tid represents a pthread.
> > If it does, the pthread's name is retrieved into the result buffer.
> >
> > This would be useful in straces of any application whose pthreads issue
> > Cygwin syscalls: It means the strace log has messages referring to
> > pthreads by their names and not by "unknown 0x###" as at present.  It
> > was a help while debugging my "aio library built in userspace using
> > pthreads" that shall never be mentioned again ;-).  But somebody else
> > coding or debugging their own multi-threaded app will run into this need
> > eventually.
>
>
> Yeah, there's definitely a piece missing if pthread names aren't being
> reported correctly in strace output.
>
> I'd suggest it might be a bit cleaner to have a utility function used by
> strace::vsprntf() to get the thread name, which tries cygthread::name() or
> pthread_getname_np(), rather than having cygthread::name() be the only part
> of cygthread which knows about pthreads...
>
> Other uses of cygthread::name() need inspecting to see if they need to
> change or not.  Given [1], I think CW_GETTHREADNAME should stay as it is.
>
> [1] https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2009-05/msg00263.html


Full ACK.  Something like dbg_get_thread_name() or some such would
make sense for the new function.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
