# Re: yet another "pedantic" patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-13T13:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010913163632.D15490@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010913163632.D15490@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/13/13-36-00)

On Fri, Sep 14, 2001 at 12:25:52AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Thursday, 13 September, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> CF> On Thu, Sep 13, 2001 at 07:44:55PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> > >  I've added input parameter checking to some functions so that new
> > > tests in the testsuite will run smoothly.
> > >
> > > Does anybody know why we link with libstdc++? I've removed it and
> > > everything links and runs ok.
> >
>
>
> CF> Can I suggest that you modify the check_null_empty_* to pass
> CF> in an errno that should be used in the case of an empty string?
>
> CF> You are special casing checks to force an EINVAL.
>
> neither SUSv2 nor posix draft say what symlink should do if first
> argument is empty string. actually, posix say that symlink() shouldn't
> care for its validity as filesystem object at all, and this can be
> treated as if empty string is allowed as symlink value.
> So, should we eliminate (topath[0] == '\0') check altogether?
> Of course, after verifying that symlink resolution code won't break on
> such symlinks.


Yes.  I guess we should eliminate this then.  It will probably require
another special case check for symlink.

> CF> Hmm.  I wonder if EINVAL is always appropriate for an empty string.
> CF> It could just be wrong in check_null_empty_str.
>
> otherwise, i think that allowing the caller to specify desired errno
> explicitly in call to check_null_empty_str_errno() is a good thing.


Ok.

cgf


