# Re: Open sockets non-overlapped?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-06-15T16:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060615164424.GA16683@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060615164424.GA16683@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/19/15-19-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/06/15/16-44-00)

On Jun 15 12:07, Lev Bishop wrote:
> Actually, it's very strange. It gets stuck on the setsockopt() in
> fhandler_socket::close(). There's a race with the parent (which is why
> it didn't happen under strace or sshd -d), but if the parent gets
> round to doing its select() before the child does the close(), then
> the setsockopt() does not return until after the select() returns. I
> attach a short testcase which reliably demonstrates the problem for
> me. It doesn't use privilege separation or non-blocking sockets, so
> that is not the problem. I haven't investigated whether it's something
> to do with the way the socket is duplicated into the child
> (WSADuplicateSocket() versus DuplicateHandle(), and such).
>
> Just to spell it out: the problem shown in my testcase, is only
> exibited with overlapped sockets. Non-overlapped don't have any
> problem. Which is strange to me, since MSDN makes no mention of
> situations where setsockopt() can block.


Erm... I tested your testcase and I can reproduce the hang only when
using NON-overlapped sockets  created with WSASocket(..., 0).
It works fine with overlapped sockets created with select or
WSASocket(..., WSA_FLAG_OVERLAPPED).  I assume the above is just a
typo?

> I think that's as far as I'm going to go with persuing this issue. If
> I need native programs to use sockets, then I'll pipe them through
> socat.


ACK.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


