# RE: A patch for the cygwin1.dll console handler

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | COTTO Daniel FTRD/DMI/CAE <daniel.cotto@rd.francetelecom.com> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2003-03-11T12:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [C691E039D3895C44AB8DFD006B950FB409D197@lanmhs50.rd.francetelecom.fr](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/C691E039D3895C44AB8DFD006B950FB409D197@lanmhs50.rd.francetelecom.fr) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/03/11/12-10-00)

OK, thank you for the explanations. 
I'll do what it needed for contributing to cygwin like I have already
said. I have just thought that my patch was non significant enough to be
a meber of the cygwin contributors.

-----Message d'origine-----
De : Corinna Vinschen [mailto:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com]
Envoye : mardi 11 mars 2003 11:12
A : COTTO Daniel FTRD/DMI/CAE
Cc : cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
Objet : Re: A patch for the cygwin1.dll console handler


On Tue, Mar 11, 2003 at 10:42:30AM +0100, COTTO Daniel FTRD/DMI/CAE
wrote:
> Because I do the changes at home for my hobby , I will probably send
> this patch to red-hat aproval system this week-end. So for your


Sorry but you seem to misunderstand.  We all are working voluntarily
on Cygwin, all in our spare time.  Nobody here gets money for working
on Cygwin, not even the Red Hat employees.  However, since Cygwin uses
a special licensing, it's required that you send a copyright assignment
form to Red Hat.  We all had to do this at one point.  Your patch can't
get incorporated into Cygwin unless you send that subscribed assignment
form which you can print out from that web page.  Just the money for a
snail mail to USA and a bit of patience is required. 

So you don't send your *patch*, just that form.  For the patch, this
mailing list is the right way to send it.

> question, Actually, the cygwin terminal have: esc  [ D for normal

shift
> et ctrl, esc esc  [ D for alt. I can change this to the xterm
> conformences. If you have a spec for this no problems. If you think

that
> my patch has no interrest a priori let me know. 


I'm just trying to make as much as possible from it ;-)

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


