# Re: [egorovv@mailandnews.com: inet_network]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Vadim Egorov <egorovv@mailandnews.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2000-04-19T21:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [uog758k80.fsf@mailandnews.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/uog758k80.fsf@mailandnews.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/04/19/21-34-00)

Chris Faylor <cgf@cygnus.com> writes:

> On Tue, Mar 21, 2000 at 11:47:12PM +0300, Vadim Egorov wrote:
> > One more way is to borow it -- glibc contains quite compact and independent one -- 
> > though I'm not quite sure about cygwin policy in this respect. 
>
>
> We can't borrow from glibc due to license considerations, unfortunately.
> BSD, on the other hand...
>
> cgf
>

As I found both FreeBSD and glibc contain the same code of inet_network
(with slightest diffs).

It is copyrighted as follows. Can this code be adopdes by cygwin?

/*
 * Copyright (c) 1983, 1993
 *	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *	This product includes software developed by the University of
 *	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
 * 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
 *    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
 *    without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 */



-- 
Regards,
Vadim Egorov 


