# Re: [PATCH v4 3/3] Respect `db_home: env` even when no uid can be determined

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **Date** | 2023-04-03T21:23:52+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZCsnyGMLSGY1nHbe@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZCsnyGMLSGY1nHbe@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2015/09/16/13-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2023/04/03/19-23-52)

On Apr  3 15:57, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> On Mon, 3 Apr 2023, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > So here is what is going on:
> > >
> > > - The domain is 'IIS APPPOOL'
> >
> >
> > There's a domain, so why not pass it to the called function?>
>
>
> Sorry, I was unclear. This domain _is_ used when looking for the uid, but
> then we run into a code path where the UID cannot be determined (because
> the domain of the account is not the machine name and the machine is no
> domain member). The clause in question is here:
> https://github.com/cygwin/cygwin/blob/cygwin-3.4.6/winsup/cygwin/uinfo.cc#L2303-L2310.
> The Cygwin runtime then returns -1 as UID.
>
> The _subsequent_ call to `getpwuid(-1)` is the one where we need to teach
> Cygwin to respect `db_home: env`. This is the code path taken by OpenSSH.
> And that code path only has an `arg.id` to work with (the `type` is
> `ID_arg`), and that `arg.id` is invalid. There is no domain in that code
> path that we could possibly pass to the `get_home()` method.


That makes a lot of sense.  However, wouldn't it be better to return
some kind of valid uid, rather than working around uid -1?

> > > - The name is the name of the Azure Web App
> > >
> > > - The sid is 'S-1-5-82-3932326390-3052311582-2886778547-4123178866-1852425102'
> >
> >
> > Oh well. These are basically the same thing as 1-5-80 service accounts.
> > It would be great if we could handle them gracefully instead of
> > special-case them in a piece of code we just reach because we don't
> > handle them yet.
>
>
> True, but I don't really understand how they could be handled.


We do something along these lines already for the AzureAD SIDs of type
S-1-12-1-what-the-heck.  If we do the same for the S-1-5-82 IIS AppPool
accounts, we may be able to handle this more sanely.  Just search for
AzureAD in uinfo.cc.

What do you think?


Corinna

> > Btw., one easy way out would be if we default to /home/<name> or
> > /home/<SID> rather than "/", isn't it?
>
>
> The default does not really matter, as the bug fix is about respecting
> whatever the user has configured via the `HOME` variable, i.e. it's all
> about the case when the default needs to be overridden, whatever that
> default is.


Right, that wouldn't help then.


Corinna


