# RE: Control auto-uppercasing of environment variables

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ernie Coskrey <Ernie.Coskrey@steeleye.com> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2005-01-20T20:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [76CBF6B36306884D835E33553572BE52059EE0@steelpo](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/76CBF6B36306884D835E33553572BE52059EE0@steelpo) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/01/20/20-53-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Larry Hall [mailto:no-personal-replies-please-lh@cygwin.com]
> Sent: Friday, January 14, 2005 11:31 PM
> To: Ernie Coskrey; cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: RE: Control auto-uppercasing of environment variables
>
>
> At 03:28 PM 1/14/2005, you wrote:
> > Well, I suppose there are some similarities between what the 
>
> uppercase_env and check_case options are used for, but 
> check_case is specifically targeted at handling case 
> sensitivity with regard to filenames, not environment 
> variables.  The subvalues of check_case are specified as 
> "levels" (relaxed, adjust, and strict), so I don't think 
> there's a clean way to use this unless we completely changed 
> the meaning of what check_case is intended to do.
> >
> > You'd also have to be able to combine subvalues - for 
>
> example, some users might want strict file checking and no 
> environment variable uppercasing, others might want relaxed 
> file checking and uppercasing of environment variables.  A 
> separate CYGWIN option seems cleaner.
>
>
> I agree.  
>
> I only glanced quickly at your patch but the new behavior 
> doesn't distinguish
> between 9x and NT platforms.  As I recall, and I may be 
> mistaken, 9x needed
> the environment upper-cased to work.  Did you try your patch on a 9x 
> platform?
>
>
>
> --
> Larry Hall                              http://www.rfk.com
> RFK Partners, Inc.                      (508) 893-9779 - RFK Office
> 838 Washington Street                   (508) 893-9889 - FAX
> Holliston, MA 01746                     
>


On a Windows 9X system, environment variables are commonly configured in AUTOEXEC.BAT using the "set" command.  The set command automatically uppercases the variable name - so adding "set MyValue=5" to autoexec.bat will result in an environment variable whose name is MYVALUE (as will running the set command from the CMD prompt).

There are two variables - windir and winbootdir - that are lower-case on a Windows 98 system.  Using my patch, I was able to run a shell and see that these variables remain lower-case in the shell environment, and that this didn't create any problems with any of the Cygwin utilities I tried.  I could have written a program that would do a variety of SetEnvironmentVariable() calls using mixed-case variable names, and then would execute bash, but didn't go to those lengths.  I don't believe this patch will have any adverse side-effects on a Win9X box.

Ernie Coskrey
SteelEye Technology, Inc.


