# Re: --enable-auto-import extension

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-05T10:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020705170621.GE30783@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020705170621.GE30783@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/01-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/05/10-06-00)

On Fri, Jul 05, 2002 at 11:36:58AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Thursday, 04 July, 2002 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> CF> On Wed, Jul 03, 2002 at 12:34:43PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> > > Attached is a patch to add support runtime pseudo-relocations in
> > > cygwin once/if binutils with support for them are released.
> >
>
>
> CF> Is there some reason why this has to be linked into the application and
> CF> is not run from the DLL?  It looks like you'd need to get the
> CF> _image_base__ variable into the DLL somehow but we should be able to do
> CF> that in _cygwin_crt0_common if there is no other way to get this.
>
> We have to make sure that we get application's, not cygwin1.dll's
> _image_base__, __RUNTIME_PSEUDO_RELOC_LIST__, and
> __RUNTIME_PSEUDO_RELOC_LIST_END__. Actually, part that is linked into
> application is doing just this -- gets application's _image_base__,
> RPRL and RPRLE and pass them to dll.


Yes, I understand that.  This is no different from getting the applications
ctor list or the application's environment table or the application's data
segment or...  See _cygwin_crt0_common.cc.

> Actually, dll's client may be another dll. I haven't tested it yet.
> Doess _image_base__ for, say, cygintl.dll get updated when/if cygintl.dll
> is rebased at load time?


Dunno.

> CF> I think it makes sense to do as little as possible in the library stub
> CF> code and as much as possible in the DLL so moving the call to
> CF> _pei386_runtime_relocator seems like a good thing.
>
> CF> Btw, could you give a paragraph summary of what this code does?  I
> CF> haven't been following the binutils discussion that closely.  Sounds
> CF> very interesting though...
>
> There is a problem with auto-import when client has a reference to data
> object in dll with some offset. For instance, dll exports _foo_struct
> and client code contains 'x = _foo_struct.bar'. In this case compiler
> generates a relocation with base symbol _foo_struct and addend equal
> to offset of field "bar" in the structure. ld (when doing static
> linking) and, say, linux ld.so, can handle such relocations, while
> Microsoft's loader can't. So, the only option so far was to change
> application code to get rid of relocations with non-zero addends. But
> this is not always possible -- such relocations may be generated
> implicitly. For instance, c++ exception handling emits a record which
> contains a pointer to "type info". Pointer to type info is 'vtable +
> 8'. If vtable is imported from dll, we can't 'auto-import' this data
> reference in client code.
>
> So, to work around this limitation of Microsoft's loader we can add
> some runtime support for relocations with non-zero addends. ld
> generates a vector of "pseudo-relocations" for each such reference in
> client code, and then runtime environment perform necessary fixups at
> program startup. Additionally, to make sure that runtime environment
> supports such "pseudo-relocations" at link-time, iff at least one such
> relocation is generated, it also creates reference to symbol
> _pei386_runtime_relocator. In case of linking new dll client with old
> runtime we'll get error at link-time -- not some strange effects of
> some references in client code are missing needed addends.


Thanks for the explanation.

cgf


