# Re: [PATCH] default ps -W process start time to system boot time when inaccessible, 0, -1

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-03-23T20:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [2ba7c12e-ebb0-6ce0-5378-3ffc904bb9b6@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2ba7c12e-ebb0-6ce0-5378-3ffc904bb9b6@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/03/23/20-49-00)

On 2019-03-23 13:49, Eric Blake wrote:
> On 3/23/19 1:41 PM, Achim Gratz wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen writes:
> > > > replacing one lie with another that is less easy to spot doesn't sound
> > > > the right thing to do.  How about ps if reported "N/A" or something to
> > > > that effect instead?
> > >
> > > 1 Jan 1970 may also be a good hint...
> >
> > Well, that was the point: I can deduce just from that date that ps
> > didn't actually get data for the start time.  If it starts replacing
> > this with the start time of the system instead, it might take a while
> > for me to see what is going on.
>
> On the other hand, the lie is pretty realistic - the program can't have
> been running longer than your computer has been powered on, and all such
> affected programs will have the same timestamp.


This change is an attempt to mitigate the output from converting time_t 0 to
local time.
Are there system processes for which the boot time is not a close approximation
of the actual process start time as shown by wmic or in an elevated shell?
That's all I'm seeing on my home non-domain system.
Suggestions for other more usable approaches are welcome.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


