# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **Date** | 2025-07-07T12:50:24+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [5be83d7c-a19f-a733-7d8f-1d41daa6b9f8@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5be83d7c-a19f-a733-7d8f-1d41daa6b9f8@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/07/10-50-24)

Hi Takashi,

On Thu, 3 Jul 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:

> On Thu, 3 Jul 2025 11:15:44 +0200 (CEST)
> Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> >
> > On Thu, 3 Jul 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:
> >
> > > I noticed this patch needs additional fix. Please apply also
> > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2025q3/014053.html
> >
> >
> > Thank you for the update!
> >
> > I am curious, though: Under what circumstances does this patch make a
> > difference? I tried to deduce this from the diff and the commit
> > message but was unable to figure it out.
>
>
> In my environment, the command cat | /cygdrive/c/windows/system32/ping
> -t localhost in Command Prompt cannt stop with single Ctrl-C. ping is
> stopped, but cat remains without the sencond patch, IIRC.


I have added this as an (AutoHotKey-based) integration test to
https://github.com/git-for-windows/msys2-runtime/pull/105 and was able to
verify that your fix is necessary to let that test pass.

Speaking of tests: Have you had any time to consider how to accompany your
fix by a regression test in `winsup/testsuite/`?

For several days, I tried to find a way to reproduce a way to reproduce
the SSH hang using combinations of Cygwin programs and MINGW
programs/Node.JS scripts and did not find any. FWIW I don't think that
MINGW programs or Node.JS scripts would be allowed in the test suite,
anyway, but I wanted to see whether I could replicate the conditions
necessary for the hang without resorting to SSH and `git.exe` _at all_.

I deem it crucial to start including tests with your fixes that can be run
automatically, and that catch regressions in the CI builds.

Ciao,
Johannes


