# Re: [PATCH 4/5] Cygwin: add fast-path for posix_spawn(p)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-07T12:16:48-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [51a8dd9a-2cc4-39cd-d026-2b4b3920bfb1@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/51a8dd9a-2cc4-39cd-d026-2b4b3920bfb1@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-59-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/07/19-16-48)

On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> https://austingroupbugs.net/view.php?id=1935
>
> > > I'm sorry if I'm sounding frustrated.  I am just trying to debate to find
> > > the best implementation.  I think that having two versions of processing
> > > the file actions is asking for inconsistencies and bugs.  As you point
> > > out, non-Cygwin processes are second-class citizens to Cygwin but are more
> > > important to MSYS2 and Git for Windows, so I can see bugs in the
> > > non-Cygwin case going undiscovered until after a Cygwin release, when
> > > MSYS2 and Git for Windows try to integrate it
> >
>
>
> Maybe I'm just badly uninformed, but wouldn't it make sense to push out
> test builds of MSYS2 as well to avoid just that?


Yeah, before 3.6.0 was released I rebased msys2-runtime on top of it to
run the tests that MSYS2 and Git for Windows have.

> All good points.  We should actually see what the Austin Group comes up
> with and then we can reconsider.  In the meantime we stick to your current
> implementation.  Would you mind to push it on top of main into a new
> topic branch, i.e., something like
>
>   git checkout -b topic/posix_spawn main
>
> and push it?  If you're not aware of this, the "topic/" prefix is
> required to allow force pushing to the branch.  It's some kind of
> safety net from the gerrit macros activated for a couple of projects
> on sware.


Done.
https://www.cygwin.com/cgit/newlib-cygwin/log/?h=topic%2Fposix_spawn

This also includes the patch I recently sent, because I had done half of
that while adding pgroup support.


