# Re: [PATCH 4/5] Cygwin: add fast-path for posix_spawn(p)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-07T14:43:06-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [104e960f-852b-cf0b-76c8-ec950e4cf564@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/104e960f-852b-cf0b-76c8-ec950e4cf564@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-59-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/07/21-43-06)

On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Jul  4 15:59, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On Fri, 4 Jul 2025, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Fri, 4 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > I see what you mean.  The question of questions is if "as if" only
> > > > covers the "performed exactly once" requirement, or if the "as if"
> > > > really encompasses all three requirements, i.e.
> > > >
> > > > - as if the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once
> > > >
> > > > - exactly in the context of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new
> > > >   process image)
> > > >
> > > > - exactly in the order in which the actions were added to the object
> > > >
> > > > in contrast to
> > > >
> > > > - as if the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once
> > > >
> > > > - as if in the context of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new
> > > >   process image)
> > > >
> > > > - as if in the order in which the actions were added to the object
> > > >
> > > > My understanding (as a non-native speaker) is that "as if" only
> > > > covers the "performed exactly once" requirement.  Applying "as if"
> > > > to the order requirement doesn't make much sense to me.  And applying "as if"
> > > > implicitely to the second requirement, but not to the third, doesn't
> > > > make much sense to me either.
> > >
> > >
> > > The "as if" performed exactly once doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me
> > > either... To me, the only case where "as if" adds flexibility is the
> > > context of the child process.
> > >
> > > > On top of that you'd have the problem that the man pages of
> > > > osix_spawn_file_actions_addclose and posix_spawn_file_actions_addchdir
> > > > contradict each other.  This, of course, is always possible.  Only an
> > > > RFC to the Austin Group could clarify this.  Maybe we should really do
> > > > that.
> > >
> >
>
>
> https://austingroupbugs.net/view.php?id=1935


I noticed a bit that you quoted that I hadn't noticed before
additionally, when the new process image is executed, any
```
  file descriptor (from this new set) which has its FD_CLOEXEC flag set
  shall be closed (see posix_spawn()).

```

The "from this new set" is not handled properly in my implementation, and
I'm pretty sure not from the existing newlib implementation: I copied what
it was doing, which was to clear the FD_SETFD flag after open.  That
would be wrong, if faced with an addopen with the O_CLOEXEC flag set.
This is obviously a stupid thing for a caller to do...


