# Re: [1.7] rename/renameat error

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <ebb9@byu.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-09-25T03:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ABC39A1.1060702@byu.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ABC39A1.1060702@byu.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/12-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/25/03-32-00)

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

According to Christopher Faylor on 9/23/2009 10:41 AM:
> > Also less risky would be to make changes locally in mkdir, link, and
> > rename for now.
>


Done - this patch narrows the scope of the changes to just the interfaces
in question.  I've also tested that it made it through the coreutils
testsuite without any regressions.

>
> I'm not clear if this is a regression or not.  If it isn't a regression,
> I'd opt for leaving it until 1.7.2.


Now that I'm not touching path.cc, these are all much more self-contained,
and make cygwin more consistent with Linux.  For example:

touch a
ln -s c b
link a b/

should fail because b/ is not an existing directory, but without this
patch, it succeeds and creates the regular file c as a link to a.

2009-09-24  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>

	* syscalls.cc (link): Delete obsolete comment.  Reject directories
	and missing source up front.
	(rename): Use correct errno for trailing '.'.  Allow trailing
	slash to newpath iff oldpath is directory.
	* dir.cc (mkdir): Reject dangling symlink with trailing slash.
	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (fhandler_disk_file::link): Reject
	trailing slash.
	* fhandler.cc (fhandler_base::link): Match Linux errno.

- --
Don't work too hard, make some time for fun as well!

Eric Blake             ebb9@byu.net
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Cygwin)
Comment: Public key at home.comcast.net/~ericblake/eblake.gpg
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/

iEYEARECAAYFAkq8OaEACgkQ84KuGfSFAYAiLACghYLCFaIGmFR4AuzKAmBuQcg/
kFoAoJcX+ufE6YUq7S1AeVRvHtyZ30wc
=4otJ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin.patch21](cygwin.patch21) (text)
