# Re: [1.7] rename/renameat error

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-09-25T08:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090925081626.GB26348@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090925081626.GB26348@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/12-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/25/08-16-00)

On Sep 24 21:31, Eric Blake wrote:
> -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
> Hash: SHA1
>
> According to Christopher Faylor on 9/23/2009 10:41 AM:
> > > Also less risky would be to make changes locally in mkdir, link, and
> > > rename for now.
> >
>
>
> Done - this patch narrows the scope of the changes to just the interfaces
> in question.  I've also tested that it made it through the coreutils
> testsuite without any regressions.
>
> >
> > I'm not clear if this is a regression or not.  If it isn't a regression,
> > I'd opt for leaving it until 1.7.2.
>
>
> Now that I'm not touching path.cc, these are all much more self-contained,
> and make cygwin more consistent with Linux.  For example:
>
> touch a
> ln -s c b
> link a b/
>
> should fail because b/ is not an existing directory, but without this
> patch, it succeeds and creates the regular file c as a link to a.
>
> 2009-09-24  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>
>
> 	* syscalls.cc (link): Delete obsolete comment.  Reject directories
> 	and missing source up front.
> 	(rename): Use correct errno for trailing '.'.  Allow trailing
> 	slash to newpath iff oldpath is directory.
> 	* dir.cc (mkdir): Reject dangling symlink with trailing slash.
> 	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (fhandler_disk_file::link): Reject
> 	trailing slash.
> 	* fhandler.cc (fhandler_base::link): Match Linux errno.


Looks good to me.  Chris?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


