# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: clock_settime: fail with EINVAL if tv_nsec is negative

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-05-01T13:06:03-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ac8b305a-70c5-4cfa-bd6d-792dbede525e@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ac8b305a-70c5-4cfa-bd6d-792dbede525e@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/28/15-43-03.thread.md#:~:text=2025/05/01/19-06-03)

On 2025-05-01 06:29, Christian Franke wrote:
> Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 30/04/2025 12:33, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > > On 28/04/2025 16:43, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > > > A followup to:
> > > > > > https://sourceware.org/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2025q2/013678.html
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Thanks!
> > > > >
> > > > > The SUS page for clock_settime() contains the following text:
> > > > >
> > > > > > [EINVAL]
> > > > > >     The tp argument specified a nanosecond value less than zero or greater 
> > > > > > than or equal to 1000 million. 
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > ... so if we're going to validate tv_nsec, it seems that's the range to use
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Yes. The patch only checks the lower bound because the upper bound is 
> > > > already correctly checked later in settimeofday().
> > >
> >
> >
> > This is just prompts me to further questions: Is settimeofday() specified to 
> > permit some kinds of non-normalized values?
>
>
> settimeofday() is not part of POSIX, Linux settimeofday(2) only says:
>
> "
> EINVAL
> Timezone (or something else) is invalid.
> "


Our std-...xml docs say BSD, and Free/NetBSD say BSD 4.2, with timezone ignored 
and set to zeros since 4.4.
They are also in SunOS/Solaris, HP-UX, Darwin, CentOS/RHEL, Debian, and likely 
AIX and OSF/1 aka Tru64.

Free/NetBSD [gs]ettimeofday(2) say:

RETURN VALUES
```
     Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned; otherwise the value -1
  is returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the error.
```

ERRORS
```
     The following error codes may be set in errno:
     [EINVAL]    The supplied timeval value is invalid.
     [EPERM]     A user other than the super‐user attempted to set the time.

```

--
RETURN VALUES
     A return value 0 indicates that the call succeeded. A return value -1 
indicates an error occurred, and in this case an error code is stored into the 
global variable errno.
ERRORS
```
        The following error codes may be set in errno:
        [EFAULT]    An argument address referenced invalid memory.
        [EPERM]     A  user  other  than the super user attempted to set the 
```

time, or the specified time was less than the current time, which was not 
permitted at the current security level.

These sys/time.h docs specify struct timeval since the Epoch, as do 
clock_[gs]ettime struct timespec, and imply only positive values, probably with 
us/ns value limits, as they are expected to be running system clock values.

> It is also usually missing in the docs that negative time_t values are accepted 
> by gmtime() etc. This works on Cygwin and Debian:


The TZ, C, and POSIX time.h docs with time_t/struct tm interfaces support a wide 
range of years defined in TZ to be +/-2^59s > Big Bang ~13.82Gyr.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


