# Re: Reorganizing internal_getlogin()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-10T08:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020610151016.GG6201@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020610151016.GG6201@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/10/08-09-00)

On Mon, Jun 10, 2002 at 11:13:59AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sun, Jun 09, 2002 at 11:52:28PM -0400, Chris Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Jun 09, 2002 at 11:12:53PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > 2002-06-09  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > >
> > > 	* environ.cc (addWinDefEnv): New.
> > > 	(inWinDefEnv): New.
> > > 	(writeWinDefEnv): New.
> > > 	* spawn.cc (spawn_guts): Call functions above to set
> > > 	traditional Windows environment variables when copying the
> > > 	environment to the cygheap, before CreateProcessAsUser().
> > > 	Define sec_attribs and call sec_user_nih() only once.
> > > 	* environ.h: Declare inWinDefEnv() and addWinDefEnv(), and 
> > > 	define WINDEFENVC.
> >
> >
> > I don't know about the sexec question.  Anyone know if there are (or
> > were) any actual applications out there which use sexecve?  Isn't this
> > just a cygwin invention?  I wonder if we should just nuke it from cygwin
> > and see if anyone complains.  It would certainly simplify spawn.cc.
>
>
> AFAICS, there should only be old applications left using sexec,
> perhaps the original SSH.com port from Sergey, years ago.  I'm
> even not sure if it still works with current Cygwin.  login(1)
> was originally ported by using sexec but neither login(1) nor
> any other application in the distro are using any sexecXX call.
> I'd guess it's existance is in limbo.  We *would* obviously 
> break backward compatibility by removing that functionality
> but it's a backward compatibility to applications build at least
> two years ago.


Ok.  I'm in favor of getting rid of sexec in 1.3.11, then.

I'll do that sometime today.

cgf


