# Re: Reorganizing internal_getlogin()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | egor duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Christopher Faylor <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-06-10T08:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1127443010.20020610192209@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1127443010.20020610192209@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/10/08-23-00)

Hi!

Monday, 10 June, 2002 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:

CF> On Mon, Jun 10, 2002 at 11:13:59AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Sun, Jun 09, 2002 at 11:52:28PM -0400, Chris Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sun, Jun 09, 2002 at 11:12:53PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > 2002-06-09  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > > >
> > > >    * environ.cc (addWinDefEnv): New.
> > > >    (inWinDefEnv): New.
> > > >    (writeWinDefEnv): New.
> > > >    * spawn.cc (spawn_guts): Call functions above to set
> > > >    traditional Windows environment variables when copying the
> > > >    environment to the cygheap, before CreateProcessAsUser().
> > > >    Define sec_attribs and call sec_user_nih() only once.
> > > >    * environ.h: Declare inWinDefEnv() and addWinDefEnv(), and 
> > > >    define WINDEFENVC.
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't know about the sexec question.  Anyone know if there are (or
> > > were) any actual applications out there which use sexecve?  Isn't this
> > > just a cygwin invention?  I wonder if we should just nuke it from cygwin
> > > and see if anyone complains.  It would certainly simplify spawn.cc.
> >
> >
> > AFAICS, there should only be old applications left using sexec,
> > perhaps the original SSH.com port from Sergey, years ago.  I'm
> > even not sure if it still works with current Cygwin.  login(1)
> > was originally ported by using sexec but neither login(1) nor
> > any other application in the distro are using any sexecXX call.
> > I'd guess it's existance is in limbo.  We *would* obviously 
> > break backward compatibility by removing that functionality
> > but it's a backward compatibility to applications build at least
> > two years ago.
>


CF> Ok.  I'm in favor of getting rid of sexec in 1.3.11, then.

CF> I'll do that sometime today.

Do you think it's better remove them from exports, or just make them
return ENOSYS? I'd prefer the latter, because windows has very nasty
habit f popping up gui dialog in case of absent dll entry point, and
if host is 1000 miles away and you're logged in remotely, there's no
way (or at lease i don't know one) to kill the application which
misses some entry in dll, other from reboot.

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19


