# cygserver debug output patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-10T12:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [008801c210b9$248538e0$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/008801c210b9$248538e0$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/10/12-56-00)

I've made some changes to the cygserver code to "harmonize" the debugging
output. I've created a new header file, woutsup.h (and sorry for the bad
pun), for cygserver files compiled w/o __INSIDE_CYGWIN__ (i.e. outside the
cygwin dll).

This defines the same set of XXX_printf macros as does sys/strace.h: of
these, system_printf maps to a printf on stderr and the others ditto if the
DEBUGGING flag is given (i.e. --enable-debugging) and no-ops otherwise. They
also use __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ to give more information about the problem
location.

I've also added more debugging calls into the code, whenever I got really
lost, basically :-)

Apart from that, just a couple of minor changes to a pthread_once_t
initialisation and some pure virtual functions on the
cygserver_transport_base class.

I hope this is all fine (Robert et al). I'll continue with some more hacking
around fun. Umm . . . sorry, make that "careful development" :-)

Cheers.

// Conrad

p.s. I've attached the new "woutsup.h" file separately as I couldn't
convince cvs diff to put it into the patch file. I thought the -N flag
should do it, but I had no luck. Could someone give me a hint? Thanks.

2002-06-10  Conrad Scott  <conrad.scott@dsl.pipex.com>

 * cygserver.cc: Move to "woutsup.h". Use new XXX_printf functions
 throughout.
 * cygserver_client.cc: Ditto.
 * cygserver_process.cc: Ditto.
 (process_init): Initialise with PTHREAD_ONCE_INIT.
 * cygserver_shm.cc: Move to "woutsup.h". Use new XXX_printf
 functions throughout.
 * cygserver_transport.cc: Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::transport_layer_base): Removed (redundant).
 (transport_layer_base::listen): Now pure virtual.
 (transport_layer_base::accept): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::close): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::read): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::write): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::connect): Ditto.
 * cygserver_transport_pipes.cc: Move to "woutsup.h". Use new
 XXX_printf functions throughout.
 * cygserver_transport_sockets.cc: Ditto.
 * threaded_queue.cc: Ditto.
 * woutsup.h: New file.
 * include/cygwin/cygserver_transport.h
 (transport_layer_base::transport_layer_base): Removed (redundant).
 (transport_layer_base::listen): Now pure virtual.
 (transport_layer_base::accept): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::close): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::read): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::write): Ditto.
 (transport_layer_base::connect): Ditto.



---

**Attachments:**

- [winsup.patch](winsup.patch) (application)
- [woutsup.h](woutsup.h) (application)
- [ChangeLog.txt](ChangeLog.txt) (text)
