# shmctl(2) patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-10T17:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [021201c210dd$af3db970$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/021201c210dd$af3db970$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/10/17-18-00)

Attached is a patch to add the shmctl(2) interfaces required by ipcs(8)
(following Linux's example tho' not their exact implementation or code).
While I was at it, I've also made the following changes:

*) Added spare fields to the existing shmid_ds structure for future
expansion; ditto for the new shminfo structure. (Tip of the hat to Linux
there.)

*) There was a problem with having two types called shmid_ds (one a class
for internal use, another a struct for i/face use), which was that they are
both needed to implement shmctl(2) in the dll. So, I've given them different
names, so they can co-exist, and made the class have an instance of the
structure as a field.

*) And I shuffled things around in the two header files in the process: it
satisfies my sense of aesthetics now, YMMV :-)

The ipctests compile and work against these new headers files (i.e. they're
source, tho' not binary, compatible with the previous versions).

I'll go back to looking to see if I can get the shm sub-system working with
the socket transport next (or, at least, trying to understand why it doesn't
work at the moment).

Cheers.

// Conrad

2002-06-10  Conrad Scott  <conrad.scott@dsl.pipex.com>

 * include/sys/ipc.h: Reorganize file. Add IPC_INFO flag.
 * include/sys/shm.h: Reorganize file. Add SHM_STAT flag.
 (struct shmid_ds): Add spare fields.
 (struct shminfo): New struct.
 (class cygshmid_ds): New class to replace internal shmid_ds class.
 * cygserver_shm.cc: Update for new cygshmid_ds class.
 * shm.cc: Ditto.



---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog.txt](ChangeLog.txt) (text)
- [shmctl.patch](shmctl.patch) (application)
