# Re: Reorganizing internal_getlogin()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-10T19:27:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020611022812.GA30113@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020611022812.GA30113@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/10/19-27-00)

On Mon, Jun 10, 2002 at 11:30:51AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> >
> > Ok.  I'm in favor of getting rid of sexec in 1.3.11, then.
> >
> > I'll do that sometime today.
> >
>
> Then you can also junk the first argument (token) in _spawnve()
> and spawn_guts() (FYI).


Yes, this was one of the things that I've wanted to do for a while.

It's checked in now, btw, along with your "Define sec_attribs and call
sec_user_nih() only once" change in spawn_guts' change.

> By the way, here is a diagram of what I proposed:
>
> Currently:
> PARENT
> seteuid   internal_getlogin (1 & 2)  spawn_guts
> CHILD
>             uinfo_init   internal_getlogin (1 & 2)
>
> Proposed:
> PARENT
> seteuid   spawn_guts   internal_getlogin (2)   
> CHILD
>             uinfo_init   internal_getlogin (1)
>
> Another reason that 2) can't be pushed to the child 
> is that it might be a non Cygwin process, expecting
> a correct Windows environment.


But, we know (in some cases, at least) if it's going to be a cygwin
process or not.  There may be no reason to go to the effort of filling
out the environment if we know we're not starting a normal windows
program.

However, I'm not convinced that we shouldn't just set the environment
correctly in setuid, rather than doing it in spawn_guts.  I think the normal
use of setuid is something like:

if (!fork ())
```
  {
    setuid (...);
    exec (...);
  }

```

So, setting the environment variables in setuid is no big deal.  The
only time it really could be a potential performance issue is if there
is a lot of switching back and forth between uids but I don't think that
is the norm.

cgf


