# Re: [PATCH] Support profiling of multi-threaded apps.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-03-10T19:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.BSF.4.63.1603101048110.25541@m0.truegem.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.BSF.4.63.1603101048110.25541@m0.truegem.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/08-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/03/10/19-12-00)

On Thu, 10 Mar 2016, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 10 10:39, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar 10 00:35, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > This is Version 4 incorporating review comments of Version 3.  This is just
> > > the code patch; a separate doc patch is forthcoming.
> >
> >
> > Uhm...
> >
> > > +		long divisor = 1000*1000*1000; // covers positive pid_t values
> >
> >
> > ...still "long"?
> >
> > Was that an oversight or did you decide to keep it a long?  Either way,
> > no reason to resend another patch version.  If you want an int32_t here,
> > I fix that locally before pushing the patch.
>


Oversight.  Now corrected like this in my local repository:

-               long divisor = 1000*1000*1000; // covers positive pid_t values
+               int32_t divisor = 1000*1000*1000; // covers +ve pid_t values

Hopefully this mailer won't fold those two lines.

>
> Oh, btw., do you have a sentence or two for the release text?  Just
> a short description what's new or changed or fixed.  Have a look at
> winsup/cygwin/release/2.5.0 for an informal howto.


What's new:
-----------

- Environment variable GMON_OUT_PREFIX enables multiple gmon.out files to
   preserve profiling data after fork or from multiple program runs.

What changed:
-------------

- Profiling data, specifically pc sampling, now covers all threads of a
   program and not just the main thread.


OK with me if you prefer both sentences in one category or the other.  I 
hope to have the doc patch ready in the next day or two.
Thanks,

..mark


