# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: remove cygpid.N sharedmem on fork failure

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2018-06-22T10:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20180622102510.GO11110@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20180622102510.GO11110@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/13-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2018/06/22/10-25-00)

On Jun 22 11:04, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> On 06/21/2018 09:27 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 20 17:47, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > On 06/07/2018 10:19 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jun  5 15:05, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > > Hi,
> > > > >
> > > > > I'm using attached patch for a while now, and orphan cygpid.N shared memory
> > > > > instances are gone for otherwise completely unknown windows process ids.
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > Without this patch, for the first-try child process which the
> > > cygwin1.dll fails to initialize for because of wrong dll loaded,
> > > the process handle is released but the cygpid.N shmem handle is not.
> > >
> > > Then, another completely independent process may get the same
> > > windows process id again, and cygwin1.dll fails to initialize
> > > because of the existing but orphaned cygpid.N shmem handle.
> >
> >
> > This problem appear to be a non-problem in the normal code path.
>
>
> Well, the underlying OS may temporarily be low on resources,
> and the parent process may retry to fork by itself...
>
> Currently, when the child process can be created but not initialized
> by cygwin1.dll for whatever reason, the process handle is closed, but
> (as far as I have understood) the shmem handle actually is lost, and
> the orphaned shmem entry exists until the parent process terminates.


Actually I'm not sure about this discrepancy but I guess the shmem
was a tolerable loss at this point.

> > In case of restarting the 2nd-try child, wouldn't it make sense to reuse
> > the shmem area instead of breaking it down?
>
>
> The 2nd-try child usually does get another windows pid, and we would have
> to *rename* the shmem: *before* closing the 1st-try windows process handle.


You just can reuse it in the corner case where the pid is the same.

> And when neither child can be initialized for low resource reasons?


Fork simply fails?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
