# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-20T01:08:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030819210645.00815bc0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030819210645.00815bc0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/20/01-08-00)

At 08:37 PM 8/19/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 04:30:06PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > Regarding your changes (it will take me a while to fully understand them)
> > - What problem are you trying to solve by having a local sigtodo?
> >  Specifically now that you have removed the thisproc argument in
>

sig_handle,
> > ```
> >  rc is not used in any function call and I don't see why it's helpful
> >  to segregate signals on a per source basis. 
> >
> > ```
> >
> > On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 12:22:17AM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > Oh, right.  I was remembering a time when the inner while used to
> > > exhaust the InterlockedDecrement.  It doesn't do that anymore but that
> > > hardly matters because, as you say, it is possible to the current code
> > > to be confused by "simultaneous" signals coming from the outside and
> > > from the current process.
> > >
> > > The only way I can think of around that is to add another an internal
> > > sigtodo array to every process just for signals sent to myself and scan
> > > that and the sigtodo process table.  I guess I'll implement that in the
> > > next couple of days.
> >
>


Yep. But the 'confusion by "simultaneous" signals' was due to
thisproc which was set to "rc == 2"
Now that you have gotten rid of that I don't see any confusion
left and I don't see the reason for the local sigtodo.

> > - Having low_priority_sleep (SLEEP_0_STAY_LOW) in the sigthread loop 
> >  leaves it running (and WFMOing) at low priority. 
>
>
> How is moving it into the sigthread loop any different than having it
> where it was previously?  The point was for the sigthread loop to
> take a nap for a while and give the main thread a chance to wake up.


For two reasons:
- Taking a nap is not useful if the mainthread is waiting for
a semaphore from the sigthread. The nap should occur after the
semaphore has been signaled.
- When the sleep is at the top of the loop it is before the statement
that sets the sigthread priority to a high value. And the WFMO occurs
while the thread has high priority, which is important.

> > Also, as you wrote the signal code is not as simple as a bicycle! A
> > question I have is why it's helpful to call
> > thisframe.call_signal_handler in sig_dispatch_pending.  I was under the
> > impression that something like it would happen automagically on return.
>
>
> Not necessarily.  It depends on who is calling sig_dispatch_pending.  An
> outer sigframe user wins.  This guarantees that signals will be
> dispatched in sig_dispatch_pending.


Thanks, but it's still greek to me. What is an "outer sigframe user".

Pierre


