# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-20T01:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030820011646.GA26276@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030820011646.GA26276@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/20/01-16-00)

On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 09:06:45PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 08:37 PM 8/19/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 04:30:06PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Regarding your changes (it will take me a while to fully understand them)
> > > - What problem are you trying to solve by having a local sigtodo?
> > >  Specifically now that you have removed the thisproc argument in
> >
>
> sig_handle,
> > > ```
> > >  rc is not used in any function call and I don't see why it's helpful
> > >  to segregate signals on a per source basis. 
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 12:22:17AM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > Oh, right.  I was remembering a time when the inner while used to
> > > > exhaust the InterlockedDecrement.  It doesn't do that anymore but that
> > > > hardly matters because, as you say, it is possible to the current code
> > > > to be confused by "simultaneous" signals coming from the outside and
> > > > from the current process.
> > > >
> > > > The only way I can think of around that is to add another an internal
> > > > sigtodo array to every process just for signals sent to myself and scan
> > > > that and the sigtodo process table.  I guess I'll implement that in the
> > > > next couple of days.
> > >
> >
>
>
> Yep. But the 'confusion by "simultaneous" signals' was due to
> thisproc which was set to "rc == 2"


No.  The confusion could result from two signals coming in at the nearly
the same time, one from an external source and one from internal.  In
that case wait_sig had no way of telling which signal was which and
could end up either not setting a completion event or setting it
erroneously.

> Now that you have gotten rid of that I don't see any confusion
> left and I don't see the reason for the local sigtodo.
>
> > > - Having low_priority_sleep (SLEEP_0_STAY_LOW) in the sigthread loop 
> > >  leaves it running (and WFMOing) at low priority. 
> >
> >
> > How is moving it into the sigthread loop any different than having it
> > where it was previously?  The point was for the sigthread loop to
> > take a nap for a while and give the main thread a chance to wake up.
>
>
> For two reasons:
> - Taking a nap is not useful if the mainthread is waiting for
> a semaphore from the sigthread. The nap should occur after the
> semaphore has been signaled.


I think we're talking about different things.  The only thing I did was
move the existing code out of setup_handler and into wait_sig.  There
should be very little functional difference in doing this.

As I said previously, I am going to have to dissect your patch and look
at it in more detail.  I haven't done that yet.  I thought you were
implying that my move caused a functional difference.  If you want,
I'll remove the "suggested by Pierre Humblet" from the ChangeLog.

> > > Also, as you wrote the signal code is not as simple as a bicycle! A
> > > question I have is why it's helpful to call
> > > thisframe.call_signal_handler in sig_dispatch_pending.  I was under the
> > > impression that something like it would happen automagically on return.
> >
> >
> > Not necessarily.  It depends on who is calling sig_dispatch_pending.  An
> > outer sigframe user wins.  This guarantees that signals will be
> > dispatched in sig_dispatch_pending.
>
>
> Thanks, but it's still greek to me. What is an "outer sigframe user".


Someone who calls sigframe earlier in the call stack.

cgf


