# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-20T02:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030819223422.00815bc0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030819223422.00815bc0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/20/02-36-00)

I got blocked from the list for the second time today,
so I changed my address. Mail sent to the old one will
still get to me.

At 09:16 PM 8/19/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > Yep. But the 'confusion by "simultaneous" signals' was due to
> > thisproc which was set to "rc == 2"
>
>
> No.  The confusion could result from two signals coming in at the nearly
> the same time, one from an external source and one from internal.  In
> that case wait_sig had no way of telling which signal was which and
> could end up either not setting a completion event or setting it
> erroneously.


OK, I trust you although I don't see it.

> I think we're talking about different things.  The only thing I did was
> move the existing code out of setup_handler and into wait_sig.  There
> should be very little functional difference in doing this.


Right. You did 50% of that particular change and I got worried. I will
try to relax.

> > > Not necessarily.  It depends on who is calling sig_dispatch_pending.  An
> > > outer sigframe user wins.  This guarantees that signals will be
> > > dispatched in sig_dispatch_pending.
> >
> >
> > Thanks, but it's still greek to me. What is an "outer sigframe user".
>
>
> Someone who calls sigframe earlier in the call stack.


Still desperately trying to understand (I should stick to bicycles, 
I guess).
sig_dispatch_pending builds a sigframe. It will be found by 
setup_handler, which will call interrupt_on_return,
which will spoof the return address and call interrupt_setup to
build sigsave.
If nothing special is done, the handler will start when  
sig_dispatch_pending returns.
By calling sigframe::call_signal_handler () the handler gets
called just before the return. What's the gain?

Pierre 


