# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-20T03:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030820033132.GA26048@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030820033132.GA26048@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/20/03-31-00)

On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 10:34:22PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> I got blocked from the list for the second time today,
> so I changed my address. Mail sent to the old one will
> still get to me.


What a pain.  It's been a horrible day.  I've been trying to do my
real job while attempting to deal with the massive flood of email resulting
from that (&*! virus.  I don't know if the virus is causing your problems
or not but I suspect it is.  I have to change the subscription mechanism
on sources.redhat.com so that it ignores virus-like email.

> At 09:16 PM 8/19/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > I think we're talking about different things.  The only thing I did was
> > move the existing code out of setup_handler and into wait_sig.  There
> > should be very little functional difference in doing this.
>
>
> Right. You did 50% of that particular change and I got worried. I will
> try to relax.


I did a little more just now but it is still not right.  I was going to
check in your recursive elimination patch to sigdelayed but noticed that
my simple test case to check how recursion worked doesn't work.  Sigh.
I should just go to bed.

> > > > Not necessarily.  It depends on who is calling sig_dispatch_pending.  An
> > > > outer sigframe user wins.  This guarantees that signals will be
> > > > dispatched in sig_dispatch_pending.
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks, but it's still greek to me. What is an "outer sigframe user".
> >
> >
> > Someone who calls sigframe earlier in the call stack.
>
>
> Still desperately trying to understand (I should stick to bicycles, 
> I guess).
> sig_dispatch_pending builds a sigframe. It will be found by 
> setup_handler, which will call interrupt_on_return,
> which will spoof the return address and call interrupt_setup to
> build sigsave.
> If nothing special is done, the handler will start when  
> sig_dispatch_pending returns.
> By calling sigframe::call_signal_handler () the handler gets
> called just before the return. What's the gain?


sig_dispatch_pending is supposed to guarantee that signals have been
flushed.

If you do something like:

foo()
{
```
   sigframe thisframe;
   sig_dispatch_pending ();
```

}

then the signal dispatch will happen when foo returns, not when
sig_dispatch_pending returns.  The goal is that, in most cases, the
function closest to the user should be the one that gets "interrupted".

cgf


