# Re: [Patch]: Create Global Privilege

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-11-26T02:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20031126021312.GD24422@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20031126021312.GD24422@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/11/26/02-13-00)

On Tue, Nov 25, 2003 at 08:55:33PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> This patch will stop the "CreateFileMapping, Win32 error 5. Terminating."
> complaints.
>
> It changes shared_name() to avoid setting the Global\ prefix on file mappings
> when the Create Global Object privilege may be required but the user doesn't
> have it. 
>
> Note that when running from the console or as a service, the names are
> looked up
> in the global name space by default (with or without privilege), thus it
> doesn't
> matter if the prefix is Global\ or "". 
> In other words, there is no need to determine if the user is running from 
> Terminal Services.
>
> As a side effect, the cygheap must be initialized earlier in the startup
> sequence because it is needed for CloseHandle when debugging is enabled
> (thus the changes in memory_init and shared_info::initialize).
>
> I don't have access to Terminal Services to test the patch, but Fabrice
> Larribe
> reports that it works fine on a system where he needed, but couldn't get, the
> privilege. 
>
> Pierre
>
> 2003-11-25  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
>
> 	* shared.cc (shared_name): Take into account the SE_CREATE_GLOBAL_NAME
> 	privilege when building the name string.
> 	(open_shared): Remove the call to OpenFileMapping.
> 	(shared_info::initialize): Move cygheap initialization to ...	
> 	(memory_init): ... here. Suppress now useless shared_h variable.
> 	(user_shared_initialize): Make tu a cygpsid.
> 	* sec_helper.cc (set_process_privilege): Call LookupPrivilegeValue
> 	before opening the token.
>
> Index: shared.cc
> ===================================================================
> RCS file: /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/shared.cc,v
> retrieving revision 1.78
> diff -u -p -r1.78 shared.cc
> ```diff
> --- shared.cc	14 Nov 2003 23:40:05 -0000	1.78
> +++ shared.cc	26 Nov 2003 01:37:57 -0000
> @@ -35,9 +35,14 @@ char * __stdcall
> ```
>
> shared_name (char *ret_buf, const char *str, int num)
> {
> ```diff
>   extern bool _cygwin_testing;
> +  static const char * prefix = NULL;
>
> -  __small_sprintf (ret_buf, "%s%s.%s.%d",
> -  		   wincap.has_terminal_services () ?  "Global\\" : "",
> +  if (!prefix)
> +    prefix = wincap.has_terminal_services ()
> +             && ( set_process_privilege (SE_CREATE_GLOBAL_NAME, true) >= 0
> +		  || GetLastError () == ERROR_NO_SUCH_PRIVILEGE) ? "Global\\" : "";
> +
> ```
>


Do you really have to check prefix every time shared_name is called like
this?  Couldn't you just initialize prefix prior to calling shared_name?

Other than that minor point, this looks ok.

cgf


