# Re: [PATCH 1/3] Cygwin: New tool: profiler

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-07-21T10:07:50+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YPfV1uOqT2WTgXVX@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YPfV1uOqT2WTgXVX@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/04-49-55.thread.md#:~:text=2021/07/21/08-07-50)

On Jul 19 16:43, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 19/07/2021 15:23, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 19/07/2021 11:04, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Matt,
> > >
> > > On Jul 15 21:49, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > The new tool formerly known as cygmon is renamed to 'profiler'.  For the
> > > > name I considered 'ipsampler' and could not think of any
> > > > others.  I'm open
> > > > to a different name if any is suggested.
> > > >
> > > > I decided that a discussion of the pros and cons of this profiler vs the
> > > > existing ssp should probably be in the "Profiling Cygwin
> > > > Programs" section
> > > > of the Cygwin User's Guide rather than in the help for either.  That
> > > > material will be supplied at some point.
> > > >
> > > > CONTEXT buffers are made child-specific and thus thread-specific since
> > > > there is one profiler thread for each child program being profiled.
> > > >
> > > > The SetThreadPriority() warning comment has been expanded.
> > > >
> > > > chmod() works on Cygwin so the "//XXX ineffective" comment is gone.
> > > >
> > > > I decided to make the "sample all executable sections" and "sample
> > > > dynamically generated code" suggestions simply expanded comments
> > > > for now.
> > > >
> > > > The profiler program is now a Cygwin exe rather than a native exe.
> > >
> > >
> > > The patchset LGTM, but for the details I'd like jturney to have a look
> > > and approve it eventually.
> >
> >
> > Thanks.  I applied these patches.
> >
> > A few small issues you might consider addressing in follow-ups.
>
>
> It also seems there are some format warnings on x86, see
>
> https://ci.appveyor.com/project/cygwin/cygwin/builds/40046785/job/fie6x4ta11v5nrjo


Given that we build with -Werror, these warnings are fatal.  I pushed
a patch to fix this.


Corinna


