# Re: etc_changed, passwd & group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-20T02:38:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030120024000.GA452@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030120024000.GA452@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/04-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/20/02-38-00)

Ok.  I took another stab at this, cleaning up some more stuff and moving
(almost) everything into the pwdgrp class.  Hardly anything is marked
NO_COPY now.

I moved etc out of uinfo since, as I mentioned, I plan on using it for
more than just passwd/group stuff someday.  I renamed sawchange to
change_possible and made change_possible a tri-state where -1 means
definitely changed.

I think that I worked around the potential for a race by explicitly testing
any registered files prior to checking if the directory had changed.

And, I explicitly closed the file even in the error condition.

For the "Novell case", I explicitly check the creation time of the file
every time.  It may be slower but at least it makes cygwin behavior consistent
regardless of whether the FS.

I also a debug_printf showing how many lines were read in in pwdgrp::load
(I made all of the functions in pwdgrp into non-inline, hope Corinna doesn't
mind but I got tired of watching six files recompile every time I made a
change).

I've got some more checks to run and then I'll checkin the current
sources and make YA snapshot -- the first to be deployed on the new
sources.redhat.com.

Once again, these are not trivial changes, but I think they are zeroing in
on something.  I am still not sure if the handle concept for the etc class
makes sense.  I may end up just going with a linked list of etc elements
eventually.

Thanks,
cgf

On Fri, Jan 17, 2003 at 11:36:12PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> I like your code, just made a few changes. The explanations below
> are detailed and longer that the changes!
>
> In load(), CloseFile wasn't called on read error, and it was called
> before GetFileTime. 



