# Re: [patch] Setup.exe choose.cc selection enhancement based on file existence

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Earnie Boyd <earnie_boyd@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-06T13:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3AA553A8.E7A27B1A@yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3AA553A8.E7A27B1A@yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/06/18-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/06/13-16-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> On Tue, Mar 06, 2001 at 02:32:48PM -0500, Brian Keener wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Even if I install from internet, when
> > > choosing the "Full" view, I'm getting "n/a" for every  package
> > > which doesn't need update.
> > >
> >
> > I think the key word there is for every package that *doesn't* need
> > update.  Since the package itself does not need updating then I think I
> > have by default (and it's probably not selectable) the source download
> > set to N/A - this also appear to be the way the current version
> > downloadable from the web works as well.
> >
> > What does it do if the package does need updating? - I think it gives you
> > the Source download option then.  I think the overriding factor here -
> > even on the current version from the web is whether the packaged binaries
> > need updating and my thought process was that if you were getting the
> > source you would probably do it at download/install time and not after
> > the package was already updated - might be a bad conclusion.  We might
> > want to revisit this - what do you and others think?
>
>
> I would like to see the ability of setup to download all sources,
> even the packages which don't need updating. I can't see a reason
> that I'm unable to download the sources 10 minutes after installing
> only because I forgot to click on the src? button in that moment.
>


And as far as I remember that is the way the FULL/PART switch
should/does work.  If I want to force a package install, whether
installed already or not it should happen.

Earnie.

_________________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com



