# Re: Reorganizing internal_getlogin()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-12T20:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020613033021.GB14456@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020613033021.GB14456@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/12/20-29-00)

On Wed, Jun 12, 2002 at 11:08:33PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 10:12 PM 6/12/2002 -0400, you wrote:
> > Yes, and as I explained previously, I didn't really like what you did to
> > spawn_guts or your additions to environ.cc.  
>
>
> You never really explained why, except the style of the names!


Ok.  Let me say it now, then -- IMO it was overly invasive.  You
invented new ways of doing things rather than extending the old ways,
which is what I did.

I'm not going to comment on the rest of your reexplanation of why
setting the environment is bad.  I'm assuming that you haven't looked at
the new code.  I agree that setting the environment only when necessary
is a good thing.  My implementation goes a step further and tries to set
it only when it is actually needed for non-cygwin programs, assuming
that only non-cygwin Windows programs will be interested in most of the
environment variables.

> The other important change I did was not to call internal_login at all
> from seteuid, and to avoid calling LookupAccountSid() [another
> logonserver lookup, really] .  Calling internal_getlogin is useless
> (except for setting the environment) and it has the additional cost of
> traversing passwd.


Yes, sounds like a good thing to do.

> > If you don't set the child's uid here then where is it going to be set?
>
>
> It's already set! (as is myself->gid and the rest).


Actually, I thought it was required in the spawn (P_NOWAIT) scenario,
but a code review reveals that I was wrong.  So, sorry, nevermind.

> BTW spawn_info->moreinfo->uid has a misleading name (probably for
> historical reasons).


Maybe so.

> > The correct way to find out if the parent is a cygwin process is to
> > check for ppid_handle.  If it is zero, then the parent was not a cygwin
> > process.  I've already made this change to uinfo.cc.
>
>
> I just checked (printed myself->procinfo in gdb), same problem as ppid. 
> If Windows starts a Cygwin process and this process exec()s.' then the 
> exec'ed process has ppid_handle==0 even though the parent is a cygwin
> process.


Ah.  Ok.  Should have read your explanation more closely.  I was using a
different definition of "parent_process".  You want to check
child_proc_info, then.  If it is non-NULL, the process has been
forked/execed.

cgf


