# Re: Patch to allow trailing dots on managed mounts

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Reini Urban <rurban@x-ray.at> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-18T18:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [41C476F1.6060700@x-ray.at](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/41C476F1.6060700@x-ray.at) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/14-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/18/18-29-00)

Christopher Faylor schrieb:
> On Fri, Dec 17, 2004 at 07:36:15PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > If /cygdrive/c/cygwin/bin./ls.exe works, then /bin./ls.exe should also work.
> > Or, both should fail.  "consistent"
>
>
>
> Thinking some more about this, there are really some inconsistencies with
> the current and proposed behavior that I don't like.
>
> Here's a table.  Please let me know if I got anything wrong:
>
> What			   Now	       Pierre's proposal   Windows Equiv
> ls /bin...		   Works       Won't work	   dir c:\cygwin\bin... doesn't work
> ls /bin.		   Works       Won't work(?)	   dir c:\cygwin\bin. works
> ls /lib/gcc.		   Works       Works(?)		   dir c:\cygwin\lib\gcc. works
> ls /lib./gcc.		   Works       Won't work(?)	   dir c:\cygwin\lib.\gcc. works
> ls /cygdrive/c/cygwin/bin. Works       Works(?)		   dir c:\cygwin\bin. works
> ls /bin../ls.exe	   Won't work  Won't work	   dir c:\cygwin\bin..\ls.exe won't work
> ls /cygdrive/c/cygwin/bin../ls.exe
>                            Won't work  Won't work          ditto
> ls /bin/ls.exe...          Works       Works(?)            dir c:\cygwin\bin\ls.exe... works
> ln -s foo bar.		   "Works"*    Works**             .lnk files with dot extensions allowed
>
> If I understand this correctly, I think "Pierre's proposal" == "cygwin's
> behavior before 2004/4", on all counts.
>
> So, in thinking about all of this, I have a radical proposal which I
> have previously alluded to.
>
> path_conv::check could detect the existence of trailing dots or spaces
> in path components of the output win32 path and set ENOENT in such cases
> unless the file was associated with either a managed mount or Corinna's
> proposed "posix" mount.
>
> The rationale for this is that you really can't (except in the symlink
> case) create a file with a trailing dot so why should we lie and say
> that you can?
>
> This probably is too radical an idea and would result in breakage.  So,
> my alternate thought is that single dots should be silently ignored in
> all path components.  Multiple dots should be ignored in the trailing
> path component, regardless of whether the file refers to a directory or
> not, which makes cygwin slightly incompatible with windows.
>
> I'm not sure how spaces fall out in the above table.  I'm not sure that the
> same rules should be applied for spaces and dots above.


I have no strong opinion in these issues (yet), but please look also at 
the related ending-colon ':extension' problem on NTFS.
Such files are also not listed, but probably should be.

"listing ADS streams" http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2004-11/msg00292.html
-- 
Reini Urban
http://xarch.tu-graz.ac.at/home/rurban/


