# Re: Patch to allow trailing dots on managed mounts

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-18T22:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041218220816.GA11307@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041218220816.GA11307@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/14-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/18/22-07-00)

On Sat, Dec 18, 2004 at 04:12:17PM -0500, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Fri, 17 Dec 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Fri, Dec 17, 2004 at 06:01:04PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > >
> > > > While I detest the trailing dot crap, I don't want cygwin to be
> > > > inconsistent. I don't want ls /bin./ls.exe to fail but ls
> > > > /cygdrive/c/bin./ls.exe to work.
> > >
> > >
> > > Assuming a normal install, the first one is c:\cygwin\bin.\ls.exe,
> > > which would NOT fail, while the second is c:\bin.\ls.exe, which would
> > > fail as expected (not due to dots).
> >
> >
> > Ok.  Yes.  I had a typo.
> >
> > If /cygdrive/c/cygwin/bin./ls.exe works, then /bin./ls.exe should also
> > work. Or, both should fail.  "consistent"
>
>
> If I may chime in, I think there are at least three separate possibilities
> for accessing each directory:
>
> 1) via a managed Cygwin mount;
> 2) via a regular Cygwin mount;
> 3) via a /cygdrive-prefixed path; and maybe
> 4) via a Win32 path.
>
> There's a need for consistency in each of the above cases, but not
> between cases.  Each may justifiably have different behavior.  We
> already default to textmode for 4), and 2) and 3) may have different
> textmode/binmode behavior.


2 and 3 don't have different textmode/binmode behavior.  You use mount to
control the behavior.

> It could be argued that as you go down this list, the POSIXness
> decreases, so it's ok to distinguish trailing dots, e.g., in the first
> two cases, and ignore them in the latter two.


So, you're saying that 2 should always say "file not found"?  Non-managed
mounts can't reliably distinguish trailing dots.  Unless you want to make
every file a symbolic link to the "real" file or always issue an ENOENT
when a pathname component has a trailing dot.

I don't see a difference between /cygdrive or a mounted drive.  Both are
cygwin inventions.  I don't see a logical explanable reason for what they
support to be different.

That is another case that I didn't specify.  Should /cygdrive./c work?
I think I'm coming back to my ENOENT for all trailing dots argument...

> Just my $0.02.


Using past behavior, which has certainly changed in the last six months
and undoubtedly changed a couple of times prior to that, or
extrapolating from the behavior of textmode/binmode to justify this is
really not an argument that I'm interested in.  You can cause cygwin
programs to control the behavior of textmode/binmode with appropriate
flags to fopen or open or by specifying the explicit use of mount.
There is no easy way for a cygwin program to figure out what to do with
trailing dots.

cgf


