# Re: Patch to allow trailing dots on managed mounts

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Reini Urban <rurban@x-ray.at> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-18T23:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [41C4BEB9.7090205@x-ray.at](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/41C4BEB9.7090205@x-ray.at) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/14-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/18/23-35-00)

Christopher Faylor schrieb:
> On Sat, Dec 18, 2004 at 04:48:50PM -0500, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > There are two possible interpretations here.  One is that Reini is
> > proposing to have Cygwin tools always list alternate streams, in which
> > case you're correct, and it's unrelated to the thread.  Another is that
> > colons in filenames on certain Cygwin mounts should not represent
> > alternate streams, but should be different files altogether, and thus
> > should be listed normally.
> >
> > That said, I think Reini's wording implies your interpretation, and thus
> > his suggestion should be in a different thread.
>
>
> There really isn't much that we can do with colons, AFAICT.  We
> certainly can't disallow them in the common case and I don't think there
> is any FindFirstFile/FindNextFile type API which allows us to easily
> expose them.
>
> Although I can see that it would be nice to have a unifying philosophy here
> I think the strange behavior of a foo:bar on an NTFS file system is not
> something that we should worry about right now.


Agreed.
Some different patch for fhandler_disk_file::readdir() on managed mounts
later, when the need arises.
readdir() performance will be seriously affected, having to look in all 
regular files for such attached ADS streams.
-- 
Reini Urban


