# Re: [PATCH v2 2/4] Cygwin: uinfo: allow to override user account as primary group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-12-22T12:44:10+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aUkvCr9olGonfljo@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aUkvCr9olGonfljo@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/11-23-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/22/11-44-10)

On Dec 22 20:32, Takashi Yano wrote:
> On Mon, 22 Dec 2025 11:58:37 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec 22 19:43, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > On Mon, 22 Dec 2025 11:22:45 +0100
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Dec 22 15:07, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > > On Thu, 18 Dec 2025 12:23:06 +0100
> > > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > From: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Do not only allow to override the (localized) group "None" as primary
> > > > > > group, but also the user account.  The user account is used as primary
> > > > > > group in the user token, if the user account is a Microsoft Account or
> > > > > > an AzureAD account.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Is there any evidence of:
> > > > > "The user account is used as primary group in the user token, "
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I don't quite understand the question.  That's what I'm trying to
> > > > explain with this sentence:
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >   The user account is used as primary group in the user token, if the
> > > >   user account is a Microsoft Account or an AzureAD account.
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > This was a known problem at the time Microsoft Accounts have been
> > > > introduced.  I never had a Microsoft Account myself since I'm
> > > > setting up my machines as AD DC or member machines, but we hit this
> > > > problem back in 2014.
> > >
> > >
> > > I could not find the document that states that primary group of
> > > user token for Microsoft Account is the user itself. Is this some
> > > specification or known behaviour?
> >
> >
> > I don't think there's anything like a specification.  It just turned
> > out to be that way back in 2014, so it's rather a known behaviour.
> > Same goes for AzureAD accounts.
> >
> > As a sidenote, there may be other scenarios in AzureAD, maybe for admin
> > accounts or whatever, but the 2016 patches were a result of discussions
> > on the Cygwin ML.
> >
> > Unfortunately, the entry adding support for Microsoft Accounts in
> > release/1.7.35 and the entry adding support for AzureAD accounts in
> > release/2.6.0 both don't contain an "Addresses:" tag :(
>
>
> I see. Thanks.
> Please go ahead.


Thanks, pushed!


Corinna


