# [PATCH] fhandler_tty deadlock patch + console + eof

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Steve O <bub@io.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-10-22T22:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021023002947.A537@hagbard.io.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021023002947.A537@hagbard.io.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/23-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/10/22/22-31-00)

Hi,
I noticed that my last patch caused EOF to be ignored in non-console
situations, like rxvt -e sh.  I've attached an updated patch that
should solve this.

On Tue, Oct 22, 2002 at 02:06:17PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> One more thing I noticed when using this patch is that pasting now seems
> really slow, as if it's sending one character at a time...  Did you turn
> off the buffering somewhere by any chance?


Not that I know of.  In large pastes, say larger than 2k, the buffers
fill up and the app stops being able to write the paste buffer in large
chunks.  This could contribute to a character-at-a-time feel.

While trying to reproduce this I noticed that pasting a selection with
tab characters into bash causes delays due to bash trying to do command
completion.  Also note that bash bypasses termios processing and so 
a paste into bash will result in a series of 1 character writes to the
pipe.  The pipe seems to have a 4k buffer, but depending on the timing 
bash may get to read each character out individually.

Though, I could of broke something.  If you want to persue this, you're
welcome to send me a test case off-list, and I'll see if anything unusual
is happening.

Thanks,
-steve


---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog](ChangeLog) (text)
- [tty3.patch](tty3.patch) (text)
