# Re: [PATCH 1/5] Cygwin: allow redirecting stderr in ch_spawn

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-02T12:47:26+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aGUOPvEQJSiWiSN8@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aGUOPvEQJSiWiSN8@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-55-24.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/02/10-47-26)

On Jun 30 12:18, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mon, 30 Jun 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Jun 27 16:32, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Fri, 27 Jun 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > >
> > > It's getting kind of silly how many args this function has.  The
> > > construction of this function (using placement new to reconstruct "this"
> > > inside worker) is kind of awkward for using members and setters (though
> > > this was done for the posix_spawn semaphore).  Might it make sense to pass
> > > a (pointer to a) struct/class instead?
> >
> >
> > Kind of like CreateProcess :}
> >
> > But yeah. I'd suggets to keep the first three args (argc, argv, envp)
> > as they are and add a struct as arg 4. This way, all args are passed
> > through registers.
>


...which is wrong of course.  "this" is arg 1, so only three more args
can be passed in registers on x86_64.

> darn, one too many args (mode) so that most callers could not need to use
> the struct.  I'd suggest moving mode to the front and putting envp in the
> struct, but all existing callers do pass envp (it seems the various exec*
> and spawn* variants all funnel down to one that passes environment).
> Could pack both argc and mode into one 64-bit arg, but that's too ugly to
> seriously consider.


Indeed.  We will have to live with at least one arg on the stack or a
pointer to a struct which also takes argc, argv and stuff, but the
downside of this is that it gets confusing easily.

So yeah, I wonder if something like this works and is sufficiently
readable...

child_info_spawn::worker (const char *prog_arg, int mode,
			  kindoflike_create_process_args *spawn_args)


Corinna


