# Re: [PATCH] Add FAQ How do I fix find_fast_cwd warnings?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-11-13T18:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3a0ad9a8-0cb7-00ca-e698-dca59bc600e4@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3a0ad9a8-0cb7-00ca-e698-dca59bc600e4@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/18-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/11/13/18-51-00)

On 2017-11-13 10:12, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2017-11-13 05:05, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 13 00:04, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > On 2017-11-12 16:02, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > > On 11/12/2017 4:27 PM, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > > ```
> > > > > +    <para>Some ancient Cygwin releases asked users to report problems that were
> > > > > +      difficult to diagnose to the mailing list with the message:</para>
> > > > > +
> > > > > +    <screen>find_fast_cwd: WARNING: Couldn't compute FAST_CWD pointer. Please
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > > report
> > > > > ```
> > > > > +    this problem to the public mailing listcygwin@cygwin.com</screen>
> > > > > +
> > > > > +    <para>These problems were fixed long ago in updated Cygwin releases.</para>
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > The wording of the warning message was changed 3 years ago, in commit 0793492. 
> > > > I'm not sure that qualifies as ancient.  I also don't think it's accurate to
> > > > refer to the problem as "difficult to diagnose" or to say that the problems
> > > > "were fixed long ago".
> > >
> > >
> > > The original message was added in 2011 - 1.7.10 maybe earlier - NT4 support was
> > > dropped around then - pretty ancient in Cygwin terms of how many Windows
> > > releases have had support dropped since then!
> > >
> > > > The issue (Corinna will correct me if I'm wrong) is simply that new releases of
> > > > Windows sometimes require changes in how Cygwin finds the fast_cwd pointer.  So
> > > > users of old versions of Cygwin on new versions of Windows might have problems,
> > > > and this can certainly happen again in the future.  But the FAQ doesn't need to
> > > > go into that.  Why not just say what the warning currently says (see
> > > > path.cc:find_fast_cwd()):
> > > >
> > > > "This typically occurs if you're using an older Cygwin version on a newer
> > > > Windows.  Please update to the latest available Cygwin version from
> > > > https://cygwin.com/.  If the problem persists, please see
> > > > https://cygwin.com/problems.html."
> > > >
> > > > You can also add your sentence about contacting the vendor who provided the old
> > > > Cygwin release.
> > >
> > >
> > > We are trying in the FAQ entry to persuade an annoyed user that it may be in
> > > their best interest to do some remediation, rather than just complain in an
> > > email to an org they think is a company (cygwin.com) they have never heard of,
> > > who they expect from their application message to take care of their problem
> > > with no other effort on their part, and who they can blame if nothing happens.
> > >
> > > Assuming they find the FAQ entry, emphatic language may persuade them to do
> > > something more than the message says they should do.
> >
> >
> > Nevertheless, Ken has a point.
> >
> > s/ancient/older and the text should really explain the "older Cygwin on
> > newer Windows" problem without necessarily going into too much detail.
> > "The problem has been fixed" just doesn't fit the facts.
>
>
> I guess I may have been a little enthusiastic to get something out there we
> could refer to in future - and reduce the annoyance level for both posters and
> subscribers - attaching a hopefully more accurate diff for comment, also
> addressing some of the other points I suggested.


Made all URIs in messages links, fixed tags, links, improved flow and wording.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada


---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-add-FAQ-How-do-I-fix-find_fast_cwd-warnings.patch](0001-add-FAQ-How-do-I-fix-find_fast_cwd-warnings.patch) (text)
