# Re: [PATCH] cygcheck: follow symbolic links

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Peshansky <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-02-16T17:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.63.0602161116540.22053@access1.cims.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.63.0602161116540.22053@access1.cims.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/18-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/02/16/17-26-00)

On Thu, 16 Feb 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Feb 13 13:44, Igor Peshansky wrote:
> > As promised in <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2006-02/msg00071.html>, the
> > attached patch teaches cygcheck to follow symlinks when looking for
> > executables, and also flags scripts.  Sorry, had legal delays in sending
> > this (as you can see, I had this working since 02/03).  Comments welcome.
> > 	Igor
>
>
> A few comments.


Thanks for looking at it and for the comments.

> - Most of your patch should go into path.cc so it can be reused, for
>   instance in strace.


Agreed -- that's why I put that TODO in there. :-)  Should I move it in
the next iteration of the patch?

> - Your readlink lacks checking the file attributes.  Shortcut symlinks
> ```
>   require a R/O attribute to be valid, old-style symlinks require the
>   SYSTEM attribute.
> ```
>


Ouch.  Will fix, thanks.

> - Couldn't you just reuse the readlink implementation in ../cygwin/path.cc
>   as is, to avoid having to different implementations?


Umm, most of that code is very general purpose, and has too much extra
stuff in it.  I basically used part of it (symlink_info::check_shortcut)
for my implementation.  I wanted something lightweight and easy to
understand (also, the code in path.cc doesn't check for PE headers, so I
had to write that part anyway).
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_	    pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu | igor@watson.ibm.com
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		Igor Peshansky, Ph.D. (name changed!)
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		old name: Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Las! je suis sot... -Mais non, tu ne l'es pas, puisque tu t'en rends compte."
"But no -- you are no fool; you call yourself a fool, there's proof enough in
that!" -- Rostand, "Cyrano de Bergerac"


