# Re: Return the correct value for sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Erik Bray <erik.m.bray@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-11-15T15:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CAOTD34ajMRiL0RMJTrVvzK8bMwAta3XJ8Pi7sk27ww1B4HLp3Q@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAOTD34ajMRiL0RMJTrVvzK8bMwAta3XJ8Pi7sk27ww1B4HLp3Q@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/11/15/15-47-00)

On Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 3:58 PM, Corinna Vinschen
<corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> wrote:
> On Nov 15 14:51, Erik Bray wrote:
> > Greetings,
> >
> > Currently sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE) returns the value of
> > wincap.allocation_granularity()--a change I *think* had to have been
> > made by mistake in
> > https://cygwin.com/git/gitweb.cgi?p=newlib-cygwin.git;a=commit;f=winsup/cygwin/sysconf.cc;h=177dc6c7f6d0608ef6540fd997d9b444e324cae2
> >
> > There's no obvious reason, anyways, that this value should be returned
> > and not the actual page size.
>
>
> That's no accident, but a deliberate decision.  Originally we used the
> page size at this point, but that's long ago.  This has been discussed
> on the cygwin-developers mailing list years ago.  The problem is the
> POSIX assumption that the allocation granularity equals the page size.
> The only working solution which does not break assumptions is to return
> the allocation granularity as page size.


Okay, sorry for suggesting otherwise.  When I looked at that commit it
seemed like a there was a lot of mass renaming going on, so I thought
it might have been an accident.  I didn't see the threads where this
was discussed.

I see the reason for the change now, but the fact remains
sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE) cannot, then, be relied on to make any
memory-related calculations from page counts.  Is there a different
(posix-compliant) way to get the actual page size, or at least maybe
it could be somewhere in /proc?

Sorry otherwise for the noise.

Thanks,
Erik


