# [patch] reorganize utils/Makefile.in

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-08T15:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [47D2B0B4.14B6EC5F@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/47D2B0B4.14B6EC5F@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/08/15-30-00)


This patch is a revamping of the Makefile in winsup/utils.  The current
Makefile.in is fugly, in my humble opinion.  It's got lots of repeated
rules and it's not very clear how one is supposed to add or change
things.  This patch does use GNU make specific features, but I'm quite
sure we already use them in other places, e.g. $(wildcard ...),
$(patsubst ...), $(shell ...) etc. are all GNU make features AFAIK and
those are all over the place in winsup.

I've also attached a copy of the patched Makefile.in if it's easier to
review that way; the diff is quite ugly.  As you can see the total
number of lines in the file is decreased by about 70, and that's
including a number of comments that I have added to document how to use
the file.

I have tried fairly hard to make sure that no actual behavior has
changed.  I diffed a before and after run and the only real difference
seemed to be the order that things ran, as well as a couple of flags
moved to a different spot in their commands.  I also tested the case
where libbfd.a/libintl.a are absent, causing the dumper parts to be
skipped as well as missing a MinGW zlib for cygcheck.  I haven't tested
a crosscompile but I can if that's necessary.  I have tested builds in
both a combined tree as well as just winsup.

Brian


---

**Attachments:**

- [winsup_utils_makefile_reorg.patch](winsup_utils_makefile_reorg.patch) (text)
- [Makefile.in](Makefile.in) (text)
