# [patch] utils/path.cc fixes and testsuite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-08T19:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [47D2E28C.3FC392D3@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/47D2E28C.3FC392D3@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/08/19-06-00)


The winsup/utils/path.cc file implements a primative POSIX->Win32 path
conversion API that is independant of the real one in Cygwin.  This is
used by cygcheck as well as strace (for opening the -o parameter). 
Currently this code has bitrotted a bit, and its handling of relative
paths seems to be a little awkward.  Examples of how it's broken:

"strace -o foo.out cmd" will place foo.out file in / (or some other
strange location, usually the root of whatever prefix of the mount table
matched CWD) instead of the CWD.

"cd /bin && cygcheck ls" reports "Error: could not find ls", but "cd
```
/bin && cygcheck ./ls" does work.

"cd / && cygcheck usr/bin/ls" reports "usr/bin/ls - Cannot open" but "cd
/ && cygcheck bin/ls" works.
```


"cp /bin/ls /tmp && cd / && cygcheck tmp/ls" reports "tmp/ls - Cannot
open".

Anyway, I took a look at fixing this so that the path.cc code is a
little more robust.  But as I'm sure you're aware, messing with path
conversion code is really annoying when you factor in all sorts of weird
corner cases, so I decided to make a testsuite for this code so that it
would be possible to both cure the bitrot as well as know if it has
regressed again.  That attached patch does both.

The harness that I came up with consists of simply a header
(testsuite.h) which contains definitions for both a toy mount table as
well as a series of {CWD,POSIX input,expected Win32 output} tuples that
form the tests.  The driver is testsuite.c, and it works by recompiling
path.cc with -DTESTSUITE to activate the hooks.  It's pretty simplistic,
but it has allowed me to fix a number of corner cases in the code such
that all of the above mentioned oddities are now gone.  In order to make
the testsuite pass I also had to add a little bit of normalization code
so that e.g. the Win32 output always uses backslashes and that it
doesn't leave repeated slashes between parts, e.g. foo\\/bar.  For the
sample mount table I tried to emulate what a real mount table is
typically like, with a couple additional mounts.

The Makefile changes to support this are pretty straightforward: nothing
changes for the default "make all" case.  If you run "make check" it
builds the required files and runs the testsuite.  I've attached a
sample output.

Brian


---

**Attachments:**

- [utils_path_bugfix_testsuite.patch](utils_path_bugfix_testsuite.patch) (text)
- [tests.txt](tests.txt) (text)
