# Re: Fix dup for /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-07-30T08:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040730082228.GA1252@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040730082228.GA1252@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/09-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/07/30/08-22-00)

Hi Guys,

do we have any further news?


Corinna

On Jul 26 21:33, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 12:04 PM 7/24/2004 -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> <snip>
>
> > But the current code seems to assume a shared memory. Otherwise setting
> > the "owner" to the current PID is completely useless (except perhaps
> > if a fork occurs while the device is playing. Doing that would be 
> > an interesting test!) My 2 cents are that I would try to remove owner.
> > While doing so we would see if (and why) it's helpful after all. 
>
>
> Gerd, (sorry for previous misspells)
>
> Following up on one of my earlier questions, I have looked at the possible
> "states" of the /dev/dsp driver and what would happen following a fork.
>
> There are basically 3 states:
> 1) /dev/dsp just opened
>      - R/W flag set
> 2) After 1st write/read
>      - Audio_X_ exists
>      - Windows audio driver opened
>      - handle audio::dev_ != NULL
>      - audio::owner == PID
> 3) After reset/stop
>      - Audio_X_ exists
>      - Windows audio driver closed
>      - handle audio_X::dev_ keeps its old value
>      - audio_X::owner == 0
>      from here go back to 2 or close.
>
> If a fork occurs in state 2), the "owner" will be set to the 
> PPID in the child. The child will remain locked out.
>
> Suggestions:
>   - get rid of owner and related tests. 
>   - reset dev_ to 0 when closing Windows driver
>   - use dev_ to determine what calls can be made to
>     the Windows driver
>   - reset dev_ to 0 in fixup-after-fork
>
> Pierre


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Co-Project Leader          mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


