# Re: [PATCH v5 2/8] Cygwin: winsup/doc/posix.xml: SUS V5 POSIX 2024 new additions available

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-13T13:38:47+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z4UJVxBngAvsxXwX@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z4UJVxBngAvsxXwX@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/00-01-01.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/13/12-38-47)

On Jan 12 12:56, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2025-01-12 10:58, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 11/01/2025 00:01, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > Add POSIX new additions available with din entries
> > > or interfaces in headers and packages.
> >
> >
> > What does 'din' mean in this context?
>
>
> POSIX entries which exist as exported symbols in cygwin.din but not
> mentioned elsewhere in posix.xml, so supported but not yet documented as any
> Unix interface.
>
> Suggestions for better phrasings of these welcome.


"Add POSIX new additions available as symbols exported from the Cygwin
```
 DLL, as header macros and inline functions, or exported from external
 Cygwin distro libs."

```

> posix_getdents:		nothing appropriate.
> timespec_get:		nothing appropriate.
>
> Also is anyone aware of a good html to man page converter to generate Cygwin
> or POSIX man pages from HTML sources available, and are cpp-reference GPL-3
> allowed, or should we prefix the function source with the man doc and
> generate it in newlib?


What man pages are you looking for?  We have the man-pages-posix package
and we only have it because we have the official permission to do so.
Keep in mind that all man pages not part of the newlib-cygwin dir are
potentially copyrighted.

> Looks like getlocalename_l doc needs updated to POSIX.1-2024, added to
> locale/Makefile.inc LIBC_CHEWOUT_FILES


Thanks, done.

> and locale.h feature test to
> 202405L?


That's already fixed since ca31784fef301 ("Fix POSIX guards for
POSIX.1-2024 extensions")

> Could CHEW doc be added to cygwin/**/*.cc or elsewhere?


Elsewhere, yes.  Inline might be a problem.  Newlib has only very few
exported symbols per file, so a single file usually matches with a
single doc.  I don't want to imagine adding docs inline to syscalls.cc :}


Thanks,
Corinna


