# Re: [PATCH] Add minidump write utility

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-02-08T17:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20140208171803.GW2821@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20140208171803.GW2821@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/16-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/02/08/17-18-00)

On Feb  8 15:00, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 07/02/2014 19:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb  7 12:44, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Fri, Feb 07, 2014 at 04:36:01PM +0000, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > >
> > > > This patch adds a 'minidumper' utility, which functions identically to
> > > > 'dumper' except it writes a Windows minidump, rather than a core file.
> > > >
> > > > I'm not sure if this is of use to anyone but me, but since I've had the patch
> > > > sitting around for a couple of years, here it is...
> > > >
> > > > 2014-02-07  Jon TURNEY  <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk>
> > > >
> > > > 	* minidumper.cc: New file.
> > > > 	* Makefile.in (CYGWIN_BINS): Add minidumper.
> > > > 	* utils.xml (minidumper): New section.
> > >
> > >
> > > This is awesome.  Thanks.
> > >
> > > Could you add Red Hat as the copyright holder, like dumper.cc?
> > >
> > > You can feel free to check this in and update it as you see fit.
> > >
> > > Thanks for doing this.
> >
> >
> > I agree, but, like some other parts of our utils, you don't have to put
> > the Red Hat copyright in there if you go with a BSD-style license, Jon.
> > Look at the header of ldd.cc.  This is fine for new Cygin utils.
>
>
> I prefer the GPL.  I will adjust the copyright holder as requested.


Ok, no worries at all.

> > Just one, really important point:  Would you mind to add documentation
> > for the tool and its usage to utils.xml?
>
>
> Um, I already did?


Oh, *blush*.  No idea how I missed that.  Sorry!


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
