# Re: [PATCH] Add minidump write utility

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-02-08T20:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20140208204919.GA5199@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20140208204919.GA5199@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/16-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/02/08/20-49-00)

On Sat, Feb 08, 2014 at 03:00:18PM +0000, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 07/02/2014 16:36, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> >
> > This patch adds a 'minidumper' utility, which functions identically to
> > 'dumper' except it writes a Windows minidump, rather than a core file.
> >
> > I'm not sure if this is of use to anyone but me, but since I've had the patch
> > sitting around for a couple of years, here it is...
> >
> > 2014-02-07  Jon TURNEY  <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk>
> >
> > 	* minidumper.cc: New file.
> > 	* Makefile.in (CYGWIN_BINS): Add minidumper.
> > 	* utils.xml (minidumper): New section.
> >
>
>
> Unfortunately there seems to be a bit of a problem with this patch. It seems
> that cygwin assumes that the JIT debugger will terminate the debugged process.
> I'm not sure if that's always been the case.
>
> Consider the following test case:
>
> $ cat segv-test.c
>
> int main(int argc, char *argv[])
> {
> ```
>  *(char *)0 = 0;
>  return 0;
> ```
>
> }
> ```
> $ gcc -o segv-test.exe segv-test.c
>
> $ export CYGWIN="error_start:C:\cygwin\bin\true.exe"
>
> $ ./segv-test
> ```
>
>
> seg-test crashes, true runs and exits, and segv-test spins.
>
> dumper.exe does terminate the debugeee, but despite what utils.xml says about
> this, I don't think this hasn't been a Windows API limitation since
> DebugSetProcessKillOnExit() has existed.
>
> I could fix this by making minidumper also terminate the dumped process, but
> that doesn't seem the right approach.
>
> I don't understand what debugging scenarios the waitloop part of
> exceptions.cc:try_to_debug() is useful in, or why it doesn't wait until the
> debugger process exits, so it's not clear to me how to fix this there, but
> I'll note in passing that it seems that the thread's original priority is not
> restored after running the debugger if waitloop=false, so perhaps at least the
> following is needed:
>
> ```diff
> --- cygwin/exceptions.cc        8 Jan 2014 16:51:20 -0000       1.432
> +++ cygwin/exceptions.cc        8 Feb 2014 14:49:59 -0000
> @@ -504,10 +504,8 @@
>
>   if (!dbg)
>     system_printf ("Failed to start debugger, %E");
> -  else
> +  else if (waitloop)
>     {
> -      if (!waitloop)
> -       return dbg;
>       SetThreadPriority (GetCurrentThread (), THREAD_PRIORITY_IDLE);
>       while (!being_debugged ())
>        Sleep (1);
> ```
>


Go ahead and check in the above but I don't see how it would be possible
in a non-racy way for a dumper process to dump it's parents core unless
the parent was guaranteed to still be alive.

cgf


