# Re: [RFC] Simplify MinGW canadian crosses

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@sourceware.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, gdb-patches@sourceware.org, mingw-patches@lists.sourceforge.net, binutils@sourceware.org, gcc-patches@gcc.gnu.org |
| **Date** | 2006-08-29T17:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060829170135.GC17552@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060829170135.GC17552@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/08/29/17-01-00)

On Tue, Aug 29, 2006 at 06:49:06PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug 29 12:09, Daniel Jacobowitz wrote:
> > On Tue, Aug 29, 2006 at 06:04:06PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Aug 29 11:47, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > Btw, I agree with Daniel's suggestion of using
> > > > ../config/no-executables.m4 if that's possible.
> > >
> > >
> > > I did that first, but the argument against this is that the
> > > mingw-runtime package, does not contain a top-level config directory.
> > > The source tree is supposed to be built stand-alone.  Therefore it's
> > > required to have a stand-alone aclocal.m4 file.
> > >
> > > [time passes]
> > >
> > > Or do you mean I should just add an include(../config/no-executables.m4)
> > > to winsup/acinclude.m4 and create the aclocal.m4 files from there?
> >
> >
> > If you do that it'll just emit a sinclude into aclocal.m4 anyway, won't
> > it?
>
>
> Hm, yes, I guess so.
>
> But the problem is clear I hope.  If we refer to ../config/foo, the
> mingw/aclocal.m4 file isn't self-sufficient anymore.  That's actually
> the only reason I didn't refer to ../config/no-executables.m4, but
> copied it instead.


As long as there's a valid aclocal.m4 in the mingw directory, I wouldn't
think it would matter but that's a decision for the mingw folks, I think.

The mingw-patches and cygwin-patches mailing lists are in the To: above.
I apologize for posting to a closed list but I thought that this was also
something that needed to be seen there.

Daniel, FWIW, I added you to the allow list in cygwin-patches so your
email shouldn't bounce there anymore.

cgf


