# Re: [Patch] Fix gethwnd race

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Ford <ford@vss.fsi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-05-13T20:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.58.0405131519060.3944@fordpc.vss.fsi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.58.0405131519060.3944@fordpc.vss.fsi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/05/13/20-28-00)

On Thu, 13 May 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> > I can't seem to make a muto fit this situation cleanly since it would
> > have to be acquired and released by the same thread.
>
>
> Why would it be acquired and released from the same thread?


What I was trying to say is that a muto must be acquired and released from
the same thread.  But here, we want to block all threads calling gethwnd
until the window thread has initialized.

> Isn't the problem that multiple people are calling gethwnd?


Concurrently, before ourhwnd has been initialized, yes.

> You even mention this in the ChangeLog below.  Given that, the place to
> put a mutex would seem to be in gethwnd.


It seems to me that you would still need the window_started event then,
no?  Since a muto contains an event, why use two?  I thought this was
lighter weight.

> So, I'm not sure this patch is the right way to go.  Sorry!
>
> I have a patch ready.  I was waiting to see if you had something ready
> by the end of the day but, unfortunately, I don't think your patch is
> moving in the right direction.


I'm not sure why since you didn't voice a very compelling objection, but I
don't really care that much.  I was just trying to help out.

I'd like a chance to comment on your version, though.

> Do you have a simple test case which tickles the problem, by any chance?


I'm just using the original one presented here:

http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2004-05/msg00232.html

> I'd like to see if what I've done actually solves anything.


Me too ;-).

-- 
Brian Ford
Senior Realtime Software Engineer
VITAL - Visual Simulation Systems
FlightSafety International
the best safety device in any aircraft is a well-trained pilot...


