# Re: [PATCH] Fix cygrunsrv invocation in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-08-16T23:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4302715C.528696C3@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4302715C.528696C3@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/08/16/23-02-00)

Igor Pechtchanski wrote:

> As mentioned in <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2005-08/msg00724.html>, I
> noticed something strange in the "cygcheck -s" output:


This fix was part of my patch from June in
<http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2005-q2/msg00138.html> but since it
was grouped with the unrelated cygcheck -p code, it kind of got lost on
the floor.

> why not simply run "cygrunsrv --list --verbose" in verbose mode, instead
> of actually going through one iteration of the loop?  Simply to reuse the
> "copy output" code?  Brian?


The reason I did it that way is because if I had run "cygrunsrv --list
--verbose" initially, then it would be necessary to parse the output and
extract out the service names, since it has to run "cygrunsrv --query"
for each individual service in the case of (!verbose).  By running just
"cygrunsrv --list" you get a simple listing of service names with no
parsing necessary, and I did not want to make cygcheck depend on the
particular output format of cygrunsrv.

This is awkward I admit because there is no cygrunsrv option that does
the equivalent of "--query" for all services.  So to support both
verbose and non-verbose listing of all services, you either have to run
"--list --verbose" and then filter out the fields that should not be in
the verbose output, or you have to run "--query" individually for each
service.  And I did not want to mess about with text parsing and
filtering so I decided to take the easy route and just invoke cygrunsrv
a few extra times.

Brian


