# Re: [PATCH] Fix cygrunsrv invocation in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **Date** | 2005-08-16T23:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.61.0508161911500.9560@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.61.0508161911500.9560@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/08/16/23-17-00-1)

On Tue, 16 Aug 2005, Brian Dessent wrote:

> Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
>
> > As mentioned in <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2005-08/msg00724.html>, I
> > noticed something strange in the "cygcheck -s" output:
>
>
> This fix was part of my patch from June in
> <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2005-q2/msg00138.html> but since it
> was grouped with the unrelated cygcheck -p code, it kind of got lost on
> the floor.


That's why it's better to send many micro-patches instead of one monster
patch...  :-)
Hmm, you should ping the list about it, then -- it's been what, two months?

> > why not simply run "cygrunsrv --list --verbose" in verbose mode, instead
> > of actually going through one iteration of the loop?  Simply to reuse the
> > "copy output" code?  Brian?
>
>
> The reason I did it that way is because if I had run "cygrunsrv --list
> --verbose" initially, then it would be necessary to parse the output and
> extract out the service names, since it has to run "cygrunsrv --query"
> for each individual service in the case of (!verbose).  By running just
> "cygrunsrv --list" you get a simple listing of service names with no
> parsing necessary, and I did not want to make cygcheck depend on the
> particular output format of cygrunsrv.
>
> This is awkward I admit because there is no cygrunsrv option that does
> the equivalent of "--query" for all services.  So to support both
> verbose and non-verbose listing of all services, you either have to run
> "--list --verbose" and then filter out the fields that should not be in
> the verbose output, or you have to run "--query" individually for each
> service.  And I did not want to mess about with text parsing and
> filtering so I decided to take the easy route and just invoke cygrunsrv
> a few extra times.


I actually meant something like

if (verbose) {
```
  f = popen("cygrunsrv --list --verbose");
  copy_output(f, stdout);
```

} else {
```
  f = popen("cygrunsrv --list");
  buf[fread(buf, 1, sizeof(buf)-1, f)] = '\0';
  pclose(f);
  for (char *srv = strtok(buf), "\n"); srv; srv = strtok(NULL, "\n")) {
    f = popen("cygrunsrv --query "+srv);
    copy_output(f, stdout);
  }
```

}

	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

If there's any real truth it's that the entire multidimensional infinity
of the Universe is almost certainly being run by a bunch of maniacs. /DA


