# Re: [PATCH] QueryDosDevice in handle_to_fn

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-16T15:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080316153607.GB27448@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080316153607.GB27448@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-14-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/16/15-36-00)

On Sun, Mar 16, 2008 at 04:22:13PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 16 03:14, Brian Dessent wrote:
> >   I debugged this and found the
> > strangest thing, when you call QueryDosDevice (NULL, fnbuf, len) to get
> > the list of all DOS devices and len >= 65536, Win32 always returns 0
> > with GetLastError set to ERROR_MORE_DATA.  Since len was being set as
> > "sizeof (OBJECT_NAME_INFORMATION) + NT_MAX_PATH * sizeof (WCHAR)" this
> > always happened, causing handle_to_fn() to simply give up and copy the
> > Win32 name into the POSIX name and return.  The attached patch fixes the
> > problem by just clamping the size of the buffer to under 64k.
>
>
> <insert lament here>
>
> > Another observation that I had while debugging this is that calling
> > strncasematch() in this function is probably wrong -- it expands to
> > cygwin_strncasecmp(), which is a wrapper that first converts both
> > arguments to temporary UNICODE strings and then calls
> > RtlCompareUnicodeString() -- we're doing this on strings that we had
> > just converted *out* of UNICODE.  I think ascii_strncasematch() is
> > probably what we want here instead, either that or try to stay in
> > unicode throughout.
>
>
> Using ascii_strncasematch here is right because the DEVICE_PREFIX is
> plain ascii anyway.  But, yes, the function should be converted to
> do everything in WCHAR/UNICODE_STRING and only convert to char *
> when creating the final posix_fn.
>
> > ```
> > +  /* For some reason QueryDosDevice will fail with Win32 errno 234
> > +     (ERROR_MORE_DATA) if you try to pass a buffer larger than 64k  */
> > +  size_t qddlen = len < 65536 ? len : 65535;
> > ```
> >
>
>
> len is a const value.  Checking len for being < 65536 is a constant
> expression which always results in qddlen being 65535 so the ?: is
> a noop, more or less.
>
> Did you test if QueryDosDeviceW has the same problem as QueryDosDeviceA?
> If not, we should use that function.


This is basically my function.  I'll try to convert it to use Unicode
today.

cgf


