# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Add /dev/disk/by-label and /dev/disk/by-uuid symlinks

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2023-11-17T17:49:09+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZVeZhRmrMlbK7qkz@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZVeZhRmrMlbK7qkz@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-39-07.thread.md#:~:text=2023/11/17/16-49-09)

On Nov 17 17:45, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 17 15:39, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > The last two /dev/disk subdirectories :-)
> > >
> > > Note a minor difference: On Linux, empty /dev/disk subdirectories apparently
> > > never appear. A subdirectory is not listed in /dev/disk if it would be
> > > empty. Not worth the effort to emulate.
> >
> > Agreed.  This is really great.  I just pushed your patch.
> >
> > However, there's something strange in terms of by-label:
> >
> > I have two partitions with labels:
> >
> > ```
> >    $ ls -l /dev/disk/by-label
> >    total 0
> >    lrwxrwxrwx 1 corinna vinschen 0 Nov 17 17:18 blub -> ../../sda3
> >    lrwxrwxrwx 1 corinna vinschen 0 Nov 17 17:18 blub2 -> ../../sdb2
> >    $
> >
> > ```
> >
> > Now I change the label of sdb2 to the same "blub" string as on sda3:
> >
> > ```
> >    $ ls -l /dev/disk/by-label
> >    total 0
> >    $
> >
> > ```
> >
> > I'd expected to see only one, due to the name collision, but en empty
> > dir is a bit surprising...  And it may occur more often than not, given
> > that the default label "New_Volume" probably won't get changed very
> > often.
> >
>
>
> This is intentional and inherited from the very first patch, see the loop
> behind qsort(). If a range of identical names appear, all these entries are
> removed. If some "random" entry would be kept, it might no longer be the
> persistent link the user expects. We could possibly add some hash like done
> for by-id or append a number in such cases later. Need some more time to
> thing about it....


I see.  Admittedly, I don't know how Linux handles this either.

> I will sent a patch for the new-features doc soon.


Thanks,
Corinna


