# Re: New terminal capability in fhandler_console.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-31T10:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010331204205.I16622@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010331204205.I16622@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../30/03-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/31/10-42-00)

On Sat, Mar 31, 2001 at 08:17:12PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sat, Mar 31, 2001 at 12:46:02PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sat, Mar 31, 2001 at 11:31:18AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Fri, Mar 30, 2001 at 07:36:58PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > On Sat, Mar 31, 2001 at 01:52:52AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > I don't think it works that way, does it?  I just tried this.  There
> > > > > > is no wrapping.  Characters at the end of the line are truncated.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Did you try that under linux? Hmm, I'm perhaps misleaded by the
> > > > > behaviour of the shell.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Yes.  I still have a little bit of state left on this from when I wrote
> > > > an editor years ago.  I was also involved in the project which eventually
> > > > became ncurses many years ago.
> > > >
> > > > Anyway, I was pretty sure that there was no wrapping involved.  I have a
> > > > test file, if you're interested.
> > >
> > >
> > > Thank you but it's not needed anymore. I've just added insert mode and
> > > the `im' and `ei' capability to fhandler_console. You're right, the
> > > wrapping is managed by the shell itself. Fine. That was pretty easy!
> >
> >
> > How about insert character (\E[%p1%d@) and delete character (\E[%p1%dP)?
> >
> > They should be trivial now as well, shouldn't they?
>
>
> They are the most trivial ones. They already exist ;-)


Wait. They don't seem to be implemented as you describe them above.
They are like

	\E[%d@ and \E[%dP

And I don't understand the sense of an additional parameter. While
\E[%p1%d@ would make sense, I think "ic" is only for moving to make
place for additional characters. Inserting N * char c is provided by
switching to insert mode (im) and then repeating char c N times (rp).
Do I miss something?

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


