# Re: utils.sgml patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-11T10:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D2DBB3B.90209@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D2DBB3B.90209@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/17-45-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/11/10-18-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Thu, Jul 11, 2002 at 02:09:05PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Thu, Jul 11, 2002 at 12:42:54PM +0100, David Starks-Browning wrote:
> >
> > > On Wednesday 10 Jul 02, Christopher Faylor writes:
> > >
> > > > Applied.  ta da!
> > > >
> > > > cgf
> > > >
> > >
> > > Thanks Joshua!
> > >
> > > With all these delightful utils.sgml patches, someone will have to
> > > update the online html docs.  I've never done that before, but I'll
> > > give it a go, hopefully in the next couple of days, if nobody beats me
> > > to it.
> > >
> > > Unless, Corinna, you want me to leave it alone.
> > >
> >
> > Just go ahead!
> >
>
>
> I've regenerated this in the past but apparently my upgrade to RH Linux
> 7.3 left me with some docbook tools that don't like cygwin.  This has
> always been an annoyance with our use of these tools.
>
> I wonder if the sgml files are a barrier to entry for documentation
> contributions.
>
> Anyway, if you can regenerate these files, it would be appreciated,
> David.
>

I'll tell you one thing, it was the biggest P.I.T.A. to get cygwin 
compatible docbook tools setup on both RHL7.3 and cygwin itself.  I do 
not reccomend it for those who do not want to waste an entire day.  You 
may be right in this deterring contributors.  Even after that, latex is 
*still* interpreting some tags strangely.  I'm afraid to contribute 
because I can't be sure my sgml syntax is going to work.  I'd reccomend 
popping over to the redhat docbook-utils maintainer's cubical and see 
what you can't stir up in terms of a decent set of packages for building 
the cygwin docs.  However, when you have it setup, db is the best method 
of creating documentation.  *Sigh*

Cheers,
Nicholas


