# Re: patch to allow touch to work on HPFS (and others, maybe??)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-02-11T14:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050211142028.GD2597@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050211142028.GD2597@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/16-55-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/02/11/14-20-00)

On Feb 10 23:43, Eric Blake wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen <vinschen <at> redhat.com> writes:
> > Anyway, can you please test on both drives how they behave if utime
> > uses FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES vs. GENERIC_WRITE?
>
>
> Well, that was my first time ever building cygwin1.dll, but it went smoothly.  
> As requested, I tested utimes() when opening with just FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES 
> and with full-blown GENERIC_WRITE, on both the ClearCase and the NFS mounted 
> drives.  In all four cases, touch(1), which boils down to utimes(2), was able 
> to modify all three file times for a file, but returned success without budging 
> any of the times on a directory.


That could be a result of the Cygwin internals.  I assume that the
CreateFile call requesting any write access fails on both filesystems.
If you have a look into utimes, you see that Cygwin ignores this case:

```
  h = CreateFile()
  if ((h == INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE)
    if (win32.isdir ())
      {
        /* What we can do with directories more? */
	res = 0;
      }
    [...]

```

Can you add a __seterrno () before the `res = 0;' line and see what
Win32 error is produced by CreateFile (*iff* my assumption is correct)?

> > The expected result would be that the clearcase volume chokes with
> > FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES while the Solaris FS should work with it.
> > Otherwise we're sort of doomed.
>
>
> Then we're doomed (but was that ever a surprise from Windows? :)


I guess trying my approach isn't the worst one, though.  We should
use that as a start point for further experimenting, IMHO.  I'll check
that in.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


