# Re: Reorganizing internal_getlogin() patch is in

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jacek Trzcinski <jacek@certum.pl> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-06-17T05:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D0DCF70.33E27FB7@certum.pl](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D0DCF70.33E27FB7@certum.pl) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/22-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/17/05-00-00)

Hello Corinna !
About one Year ago I created patch to serial device which was serving
ioctl function enabling setting RTS and DTR lines and reading CTS and
DSR lines. As I remember our last discussion one thing left - copyright
assignment. I had agreement of my boss but I was "too lazy" to post it.
Other matter is that recently I use Cygwin relatively rarely so I had no
motivation to do it.
Recently I have got few e-mails fom Cygwin list what is on with the
patch. I wonder If You are still interested in the patch . If so I can
immediately post copyright assignment. In this case remind me please
where can I find correct form sheets for such assignment.

Best regards
Jacek

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> On Sun, Jun 16, 2002 at 01:15:06AM -0400, Chris Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Jun 16, 2002 at 12:07:01AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > b) NetUserGetInfo() must always be called with the env_logsrv, otherwise
> > > name aliasing can occur. Don't call if env_logsrv is NULL, which should
> > > be the case only for SYSTEM.
> >
> >
> > I seem to recall that Corinna added this code for a reason.
>
>
> The original reason was to speed up things in domain environments.
> The local machine has buffered the user information so it's called
> first.  Only if that fails we fallback to calling the logon server
> (a PDC probably).  This should avoid unnecessary net access.
>
> I'm curious, too, what you mean by "name aliasing".  Are you talking
> about having a local and a domain user of the same name?
>
> > > c) get_logon_server() will fail for SYSTEM. There should be a test
> > > "if (strcasematch (Windowname (), "SYSTEM"))" before calling it as it
> > > will looked up repeatedly if plogsrv remains NULL.
> >
>
>
> That test is ok.
>
> Corinna



