# Re: Mount interaction with /dev & /proc entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-17T14:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [032601c21643$81228be0$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/032601c21643$81228be0$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/15-29-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/17/14-09-00)

"Chris January" <chris@atomice.net> wrote:
> Well, when I was writing the /proc stuff, I wrote it on the premise

there
> was an imaginary proc filesystem mounted a /proc. This means if you

chroot,
> that filesystem won't be mounted at /proc anymore and hence it is

correct
> that /proc doesn't work. i.e. the path handling is done with mount

points in
> mind.


I'm sympathetic to this approach and I realised it was deliberate -- I
should have addressed you directly on this: sorry about that, I
(wrongly) assume that most of the DLL code is the sole interest of the
good folks at RedHat rather than any of the contributors.

Anyhow, I was thinking more that while the mount system is as it is
now (i.e. you've no choice about where the /proc vfs is "mounted"),
it's either going to remain or disappear when someone's chroot'ed.
Since then it can be done "right" at the moment, I thought it would be
better at least to be consistent :-) i.e. make it the same as /dev,
the only other vfs. But since my patch was broken, it's all a bit
academic :-(

> I would argue, as Chris F has suggested above, that this is best

left for
> the re-write of the mount stuff.


I'm happily agreeing with both Chris F and yourself that this is best
left for that re-write, then it can be done "right".

Cheers,

// Conrad




