# Re: [PATCH] DocBook XML toolchain modernization

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-05-13T14:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130513142633.GB9456@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130513142633.GB9456@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/30/00-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/05/13/14-26-00)

On Apr 30 20:31, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 03:53:58PM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> > On 4/30/2013 14:27, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 02:09:52PM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> > > >   Embedding <html> within <html> is eeevil.
> > >
> > >
> > > faq.html is a pretty simple file and it seems to work.  Are there any
> > > non-religious advantages to doing this?
> >
> >
> > Conceivably browsers could stop tolerating it.
>
>
> Yeah, that's what I thought you'd say.  I don't think it's worth the
> effort and expense of duplicating Cygwin's CSS elsewhere but maybe
> there's a clever way to avoid the html nesting which wouldn't require
> that.
>
> > > > - Any comments about the other items in my FUTURE WORK section?
> > > > Unconditional green light, or do you want to approve them one by one?
> > >
> > >
> > > You have the right to change anything in the doc directory.  Anything
> > > outside of that will require approval.
> >
> >
> > The final removal of doctool requires replacing the DOCTOOL/SGML 
> > comments in winsup/cygwin/{path,pinfo}.cc with Doxygen comments, and 
> > folding most of the contents of winsup/cygwin/*.sgml into Doxygen 
> > comments within the relevant source files.
>
>
> I'd rather just move this out of the code entirely.  The user visible
> interfaces aren't going to change and we haven't made a habit of
> adding new DOCTOOL tags.  I don't know who first thought that adding
> these was a good idea (it may predate my time on the project even
> though CVS insists that I added it with version 1.1) but, if Corinna
> agrees when she gets back, I'd like to just get rid of these.


I have not the faintest problem here, so I guess this means, just nuke
'em.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


