# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: allow changes of the priority

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-25T21:20:19+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [5d40600d-8929-ebc4-d417-6e8b3221d09e@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5d40600d-8929-ebc4-d417-6e8b3221d09e@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/18-56-49.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/25/20-20-19)

Hi Corinna,

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Christian,
>
> On Nov 25 15:00, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Fixes: ...?
> >
> > ... the very first commit (cgf 2001) of sched.cc :-)
> >
> > New patch attached.
> >
> >  From e95fc1aceb5287f9ad65c6c078125fecba6c6de9 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> > From: Christian Franke <christian.franke@t-online.de>
> > Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2024 14:51:04 +0100
> > Subject: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: allow changes of the priority
> >
> > Behave like sched_setparam() if the requested policy is identical
> > to the fixed value (SCHED_FIFO) returned by sched_getscheduler().
> >
> > Fixes: 6b2a2aa4af1e ("Add missing files.")
>
> Huh, yeah, this is spot on.  I wonder if it would make sense to change
> that to 9a08b2c02eea ("* sched.cc: New file.  Implement sched*.")
> though, given that was the patch intended to add sched.cc :)))
>
> Sorry, but I have to ask two more questions:
>
> - Isn't returning SCHED_FIFO sched_getscheduler() just as wrong?


Definitly. SCHED_FIFO is a non-preemptive(!) real-time policy. Windows 
does not offer anything like that to userland (AFAIK).

https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/sched.7.html

I wonder whether there was a use case for this emulation when this 
module was introduced in 2001.


> ```
>    Shouldn't that be SCHED_OTHER, and sched_setscheduler() should check
>    for that instead?  Cygwin in a real-time scenario sounds a bit
>    far-fetched...
> ```
>


Agree.

Note that SCHED_OTHER requires sched_priority == 0, so most of the 
sched_get/set*() priority related code would no longer make sense then.

A related interesting snippet which I don't understand:
sys/sched.h:
```
#if defined(__CYGWIN__)
#define SCHED_OTHER    3
#else
#define SCHED_OTHER    0
```

#endif

> - Don't you want this patch in 3.5.5?  I'd merge the other patch
>    into 3.5.5 anyway...


OK.

-- 
Regards,
Christian



