# Re: [PATCH]: Check modification time on /etc/passwd and /etc/group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-08-05T09:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010805122954.B13202@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010805122954.B13202@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/31/11-38-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/08/05/09-29-00)

On Sun, Aug 05, 2001 at 11:12:51AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sat, Aug 04, 2001 at 05:21:01PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sat, Aug 04, 2001 at 09:59:35PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > I haven't found such a problem. I had no endless loop. However, I have
> > > a redefined solution which doesn't use stat(). Instead it converts
> > > the /etc/passwd and /etc/group paths to win32 paths and accesses them
> > > directly using FileFirstFind() which should be way faster.
> >
> >
> > This is probably ok but there is a potential gotcha if the user changes
> > a mount or makes a symbolic link to /etc/passwd or something.
>
>
> Who would do that on a POSIX system?
>
> IMO, we're just talking about rereading /etc/passwd and /etc/group
> when it has changed it's content w/o restarting a process.
>
> Why should a user expect to be able to change the path to the passwd
> file w/o restarting a process?


That's why I said "This is probably ok".  I do suspect that there could
be problems with things like long-running daemons but given the fact
that it will be unlikely that people will be messing with this, it's
probably no big deal.

I only mentioned it for the record and in case someone had an objection.

> > > If we additionally change the read_etc_passwd() and read_etc_group()
> > > code so that direct win32 calls are used for reading the files, we could
> > > perhaps speed up Cygwin again a few percent.
> >
> >
> > I think we'd get much more savings by moving /etc/passwd info into either
> > the cygwin heap
>
> ```
>      ^^^^^^^^^^^
>      the best compromise
>
> ```
>
> >                 or shared memory so that /etc/passwd wasn't read by
>
> ```
>                     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 		     the best way but difficult
>
> ```
>
> > each exec'ed process.  Then the file would only be read when it was
> > needed.
>
>
> I will work on moving the stuff into cygheap.
>
> However, I would still prefer to get the /etc/passwd path once,
> translate it into a Win32 path and work with that. If each access
> to passwd and group information requires checking file modification
> time, it's not that clever to have to convert the path all the time,
> IMO.


Now that I think of this, I actually did this a while ago.  IIRC, it
actually slowed things down.  I didn't investigate why and I just reverted
my change.

> > Actually, it's possible that /etc/passwd isn't read by an exec'ed process
> > now unless it needs to look up a uid other than it's own.  I don't know
> > for sure.
>
>
> It doesn't look so, at least with ntsec on which often needs the
> uid/gid <-> SID mappings.


So, is it worthwhile to make this change?  We might be adding some overhead
for an infrequent case.

cgf


