# [PATCH] better stackdumps

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-19T00:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [47E05D34.FCC2E30A@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/47E05D34.FCC2E30A@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/19/00-24-00)


This patch adds the ability to see functions/symbols in the .stackdump
files generated when there's a fault.  It parses the export sections of
each loaded module and finds the closest exported address for each stack
frame address.  This of course won't be perfect as it will show the
wrong function if the frame is in the middle of a non-exported function,
but it's better than what we have now.

This also uses a couple of tricks to make the output more sensible.  It
can "see through" the sigfe wrappers and print the actual functions
being wrapped.  It also has a set of internal symbols that it consults
for symbols in Cygwin.  This allows it to get the bottom frame correct
(_dll_crt0_1) even though that function isn't exported.  If there are
any other such functions they can be easily added to the 'hints' array.

Also attached is a sample output of an invalid C program and the
resulting stackdump.  Note that the frame labeled _sigbe really should
be a frame somewhere inside the main .exe.  I pondered trying to extract
the sigbe's return address off the signal stack and using that for the
label but I haven't quite gotten there, since I can't think of a
reliable way to figure out the correct location on the tls stack where
the real return address is stored.

Of course the labeling works for any module/dll, not just cygwin1.dll,
but I didn't have a more elaborate testcase to demonstrate.

Brian


---

**Attachments:**

- [backtrace_symbols.patch](backtrace_symbols.patch) (text)
- [sample.txt](sample.txt) (text)
