# Re: [PATCH] better stackdumps

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-19T03:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080319030027.GC22446@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080319030027.GC22446@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/19/03-00-00)

On Tue, Mar 18, 2008 at 05:24:20PM -0700, Brian Dessent wrote:
>
> This patch adds the ability to see functions/symbols in the .stackdump
> files generated when there's a fault.  It parses the export sections of
> each loaded module and finds the closest exported address for each stack
> frame address.  This of course won't be perfect as it will show the
> wrong function if the frame is in the middle of a non-exported function,
> but it's better than what we have now.
>
> This also uses a couple of tricks to make the output more sensible.  It
> can "see through" the sigfe wrappers and print the actual functions
> being wrapped.  It also has a set of internal symbols that it consults
> for symbols in Cygwin.  This allows it to get the bottom frame correct
> (_dll_crt0_1) even though that function isn't exported.  If there are
> any other such functions they can be easily added to the 'hints' array.
>
> Also attached is a sample output of an invalid C program and the
> resulting stackdump.  Note that the frame labeled _sigbe really should
> be a frame somewhere inside the main .exe.  I pondered trying to extract
> the sigbe's return address off the signal stack and using that for the
> label but I haven't quite gotten there, since I can't think of a
> reliable way to figure out the correct location on the tls stack where
> the real return address is stored.
>
> Of course the labeling works for any module/dll, not just cygwin1.dll,
> but I didn't have a more elaborate testcase to demonstrate.
>
> Brian
> 2008-03-18  Brian Dessent  <brian@dessent.net>
>
> 	* exceptions.cc (maybe_adjust_va_for_sigfe): New function to cope
> 	with signal wrappers.
> 	(prettyprint_va): New function that attempts to find a symbolic
> 	name for a memory location by walking the export sections of all
> 	modules.
> 	(stackdump): Call it.
> 	* gendef: Mark __sigfe as a global so that its address can be
> 	used by the backtrace code.
> 	* ntdll.h (struct _PEB_LDR_DATA): Declare.
> 	(struct _LDR_MODULE): Declare.
> 	(struct _PEB): Use actual LDR_DATA type for LdrData.
> 	(RtlImageDirectoryEntryToData): Declare.


Sorry, but I don't like this concept.  This bloats the cygwin DLL for a
condition that would be better served by either using gdb or generating
a real coredump.

OTOH, adding a list of loaded dlls to a stackdump might not be a bad
idea so that some postprocessing program could generate the same output
as long as that didn't add too much code to cygwin.

cgf


