# Re: [PATCH] better stackdumps

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pedro Alves <pedro_alves@portugalmail.pt> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-19T21:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [200803192102.48661.pedro_alves@portugalmail.pt](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/200803192102.48661.pedro_alves@portugalmail.pt) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/19/21-03-00)

A Wednesday 19 March 2008 15:56:55, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > Sorry, but I don't like this concept.  This bloats the cygwin DLL for a
> > condition that would be better served by either using gdb or generating
> > a real coredump.
>
>
> I hear you, but part of the motivation for writing this was a recent
> thread the other week on the gdb list where the poster asked how to get
> symbols in a Cygwin stackdump file.  I suggested the same thing, setting
> error_start=dumper to get a real core dump.  They did, and the result
> was completely useless.  Here is what dumper gives you for the same
> simple testcase:
>
> $ gdb
> (gdb) core a.exe.core
> [New process 1]
> [New process 0]
> [New process 0]
> #0  0x7c90eb94 in ?? ()
> (gdb) thr apply all bt
>
> Thread 3 (process 0):
> ```
> #0  0x7c90eb94 in ?? ()
>
> Thread 2 (process 0):
> #0  0x7c90eb94 in ?? ()
> ```
>
>
> Thread 1 (process 1):
> #0  0x7c90eb94 in ?? ()
>
> You can't even make out the names of any of the loaded modules from the
> core:
>


Sorry I missed the discussion at gdb@.  What does info sharelibrary say?
The last I looked at this, it worked.  Is this broken in gdb head
and on the cygwin distributed gdb?

> that this patch introduces.  Plus without being able to recognise that
> signal wrappers obscure the location of the real entrypoints to
> many/most Cygwin functions, the backtrace used by this method looks very
> bad and doesn't give useful information for routines in Cygwin -- and
> being able to do that processing is much easier when you're in the
> actual module that has the wrappers as you can simply test against
> &_sigfe.


Is this something that would be nice to have in gdb then?

-- 
Pedro Alves


