# Re: [PATCH] Improve strace to log most Windows debug events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon TURNEY <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-10T18:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [5578862D.3060403@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5578862D.3060403@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/10/18-47-00)

On 10/06/2015 18:23, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun 10 17:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 10 16:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jun 10 16:11, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Hi Jon,
> > > >
> > > > On Jun 10 13:05, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > > > Not sure if this is wanted, but on a couple of occasions recently I have been
> > > > > presented with strace output which contains an exception at an address in an
> > > > > unknown module (i.e. not in the cygwin DLL or the main executable), so here is a
> > > > > patch which adds some more information, including DLL load addresses, to help
> > > > > interpret such straces.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > That's a nice addition.  Two points, though:
> > > >
> > > > - Do we *always* want that output or do we want a way to switch it on
> > > > ```
> > > >    and off?  If the latter, we can simply add another _STRACE_foo option
> > > >    for it.
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> >
>


I'm not sure it makes much sense to use a _STRACE_foo flag, since those 
form a mask applied to a set of flags emitted by the cygwin DLL.

I added a command line option to turn this additional logging off.

> > > >
> > > > - The GetFileNameFromHandle function could be much simpler.  Rather than
> > > > ```
> > > >    opening a mapping object for ev.u.LoadDll.hFile, just use the existing
> > > >    mapping object from ev.u.LoadDll.lpBaseOfDll.
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >      ...with the process handle taken from get_child(ev.dwProcessId).
> >
> >
> > And since I'm generally fuzzy and unclear in my first reply:
> >
> > Of course, ev.u.LoadDll.lpBaseOfDll is not the mapping *object*, but the
> > mapping *address*.  So you neither have to call CreateFileMapping nor
> > MapViewOfFile.  Just call GetMappedFileNameW (get_child (ev.dwProcessId),
> > ev.u.LoadDll.lpBaseOfDll, ...)
>
>
> This works for me resulting in Win32 pathnames.  These are only the
> affected diff hunks, I omited the rest.  Does that work for you?
>
> Btw., I don't like using MAX_PATH as maximum path length, but I think
> DLL paths can't be longer anyway, so that should be ok...
>
>
> ```diff
> diff --git a/winsup/utils/strace.cc b/winsup/utils/strace.cc
> index 73096ab..0661e17 100644
> --- a/winsup/utils/strace.cc
> +++ b/winsup/utils/strace.cc
> ```
>


Yes, that seems to work.


