# Re: [PATCH 0/3] fix unlink/rename failure in hyper-v container

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Yoshinao Muramatsu <ysno@ac.auone-net.jp> |
| **Date** | 2023-03-20T21:37:09+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZBjD9exM9ZBGDzK3@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZBjD9exM9ZBGDzK3@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/14-43-43.thread.md#:~:text=2023/03/20/20-37-09)

On Mar 20 15:51, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 20 22:06, Yoshinao Muramatsu wrote:
> > On 2023/03/18 19:01, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID flag is missing.
> > >
> > > NTFS always supports this since Windows 2003!  So we could
> > > use this flag as indicator that, probably, POSIX rename/unlink
> > > won't work.
> >
> >
> > I thought that if there was no FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID
> > and OpenByFileId() worked, it would be a Signature,
> > but the result was different.
> >
> > I tested OpenByFileID() on a bind-mounted directory, it was failed.
> > Maybe it's because of the path isolation.
> > ltsc2022 process isolation says "I support it" but it not works.
> > Okay, it's not a security issue. So now I'm writing this here.
> >
> > Unfortunately, the state of the FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID flag
> > does not match the actual behavior, so I fear it may be corrected.
>
>
> Actually, it doesn't matter if open by fileID works.  The fact that
> this flag is missing *is* a pattern we can use.  It allows us to
> distinguish the hyper-v isolated NTFS from a standard NTFS and thus,
> we can immediately do the right thing.
>
> > ps
> > Corinna, I read the new email about fs_info::update patch
> > you posted while I was writing this.
> > I will report back when I test it, but it may take some time
> > as I usually use msys2 and don't have a cygwin development environment.
>
>
> No worries!


Wait.  I might have misunderstood something.  This is about accessing a
host NTFS from inside a Hyper-V isolated process, right?  So from the
point of view of the Hyper-V isolated Cygwin process, the NTFS
filesystem is a *local* filesystem?  Or is it mapped as a remote
filesystem?

The difference is important, because my patch would only change the
outcome if the Cygwin process in the Hyper-V container gets the
NTFS filesystem presented as a remote filesystem.

I noticed this problem when I was looking into implementing the
FILE_SUPPORTS_OPEN_BY_FILE_ID flag checking.  I have a different
solution from the one I pushed today in the loop which probably
makesmuch more sense and is independent of the subtil difference
between loca and remote FS.


Corinna


