# Re: access () and path.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-02-28T05:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030228051131.GB23995@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030228051131.GB23995@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](04-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/28/05-11-00)

On Thu, Feb 27, 2003 at 11:54:37PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 11:36 PM 2/27/2003 -0500, you wrote:
> > Pierre,
> > You and Corinna are giving me a headache.  :-)
>
>
> My immediate access () problem can be fixed by replacing 
> real_path by fn in the stat_worker call.
>
> Problem #1 is a real bug, should be easy to fix, and may not
> show up anywhere anyway, so not urgent.


I've known about this for a while and I have never considered it a bug
worth fixing.  It should disappear in my branch since the code which
causes it to happen should also disappear.  Hmm.  I guess I'd better
make sure that's true now that I've said this.

> Problems #2 & 3 can be solved by 
> > For instance, wouldn't all this be alleviated just by using
> > cfg->get_name() rather than cfg->get_win32_name in the stat functions?
>
> at the expense of efficiency (most of the time).
> But efficiency can be revisited after you integrate your changes.


Right.  That call disappears in my code.

> BTW, I was looking at the path/fhandler code and came to the tentative
> conclusion that it shouldn't be necessary to keep both a Windows path 
> and a Unix path in the fhandler structures.
> For the files understood by Windows, I think the Windows path is enough.
> For the other files (most /dev, /proc), the Posix path should be OK.


The path_conv structure is passed around in fhandler_base in my code so
it's very different.  I'd have to check but I think that devices always
just show up as \dev\whatever.  hash_path_name sort of relies on windows
path names but that is not a huge deal.  It may not even be applicable
to devices.

Please remind me about all of this when I merge my branch to the trunk.
I think that some of these changes should probably be reverted in the
name of efficiency at that time.

cgf


