# Re: access () and path.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-02-28T06:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030228012054.00800e80@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030228012054.00800e80@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](04-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/28/06-21-00)

At 01:10 AM 2/28/2003 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Feb 28, 2003 at 01:02:58AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 12:56 AM 2/28/2003 -0500, you wrote:
> > > On Fri, Feb 28, 2003 at 12:49:59AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > OK, following Chris' remarks here is a much smaller set
> > > > of changes.
> > >
> > >
> > > Do you think it would make sense to do something along the lines
> > > of:
> > > > +      path_conv pc (cfd->is_device ? cfd->get_name () :
> > >
> >
> > cfd->get_win32_name (), PC_SYM_NOFOLLOW);
> >
> > I guess one could but judging from the times I see in 
> > strace it's not really justified.
> >
> > On the other hand that's something that we could look at after you
> > integrate your code.  There could eventually be a single get_name
> > returning what's appropriate.
>
>
> This isn't an issue with my code, at least for fstat64.  That's one of
> the reasons for my changes.  I was trying to minimize the number of
> duplicate passes through path_conv::check.  I still have some tweaking
> to do though since adding path_conv to fhandler balloons the sizes of
> fhandler_base and ends up using a lot more space in cygheap, which means
> more memory to copy on fork, which could mean slower forks, which means
> that my performance improvement makes things work more slowly...


Right. The funny part with path_conv is that 2/3 of the storage is in 
fs_info. Is that really needed/useful?

> Anyway, please feel free to check in what you have.


OK, this evening.

Pierre


