# Re: [PATCH 1/1] Rename cross_bootstrap back to mingw_progs to avoid confusion.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | J.H. vd Water <dhr-incognito@xs4all.nl> |
| **Date** | 2026-01-10T19:28:25Z |
| **Message-ID** | [22c6c4b0-6b4a-499f-b34c-445635c7034d@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/22c6c4b0-6b4a-499f-b34c-445635c7034d@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/19-04-14.thread.md#:~:text=2026/01/10/19-28-25)

On 09/01/2026 19:04, J.H. vd Water via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> Revert the option name in AC_ARG_WITH([cross_bootstrap] back to its previous name,
> mingw_progs, in order to avoid confusion ... Also revert the meaning of the macro.
>
> About 10 years ago, Foley (1] was messing around with a stage1 gcc cross-compiler
> for Cygwin on Linux, and decided he only required cygwin1.dll.
>
> He did not like to rebuild assets, like cygcheck, strace, for which he was forced
> to install the mingw-runtime (then: mingw-crt) and the MinGW toolchain.
>
> Foley decided to change the option name of the AC_ARG_WITH([mingw_progs] macro in
> winsup/configure.ac; however, he also inverted the meaning of the --with(out)-FOO
> switch (as Foley also inverted the test that follows the macro) ...
>
> ```
>      --with-FOO changed from: "Hunt for mingw" ... to "do NOT hunt for mingw"
>      --without-FOO changed from: "do NOT hunt for mingw" ... to "Hunt for mingw"
>
> ```
>
> Originally:
> AC_ARG_WITH([mingw_progs], ...
> if test "x$with_mingw_progs" != xno; then
>    Hunt for mingw
>
> Foley:
> AC_ARG_WITH([cross_bootstrap], ...
> if test "x$with_cross_bootstrap" != "xyes"; then
>    Hunt for mingw
>
> Foley changed the option name of the macro to "cross-bootstrap", which confused not
> only Corinna V. [2], but is still confusing to everyone today!


Indeed!

> Therefore I suggest to revert both the option name of the macro and the meaning of
> the macro to what they were: option name: mingw_progs, meaning: Hunt for the MinGW
> Toolchain (if --with-mingw-progs is specified).


Thanks, applied.



