# Re: [PATCH v2 4/5] Cygwin: use udis86 to find fast cwd pointer on x64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-03-28T12:51:39-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [67305d04-d1b3-da31-672d-53fc8df2d0e0@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/67305d04-d1b3-da31-672d-53fc8df2d0e0@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/23-52-31.thread.md#:~:text=2025/03/28/19-51-39)

On Fri, 28 Mar 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> This sounds great, but don't put too many effort into past preview
> releases.  We try hard that Cygwin runs on released versions of
> Windows.  But preview versions of the past are a thing of the past.  Not
> only that, but you're putting a lot of effort into versions sometimes
> used by a single machine.
> It might further simplify the code if you don't handle these old
> temporary versions anymore and concentrate on the past releases.


I'm not.  I'm only looking at *released* versions of Windows, but at least
considering what comments had to say about old preview releases as ways in
which this code might potentially be mangled by a compiler.

> Btw., wouldn't you have fun to join our Libera IRC channel
> #cygwin-developers?  https://cygwin.com/irc.html


I was on MSYS2's discord for a while, but I found that between the time
zone differences and my own feeling that I needed to keep up with all the
messages I had to give up on that.  I try to prune my Github notifications
down to a level where I can keep up with pieces I'm interested in without
getting overwhelmed.

I seem to remember that IRC doesn't deliver a backlog of messages from
when you're offline, so perhaps it would be worth a try.


