# Re: [PATCH] fix make after clean

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-04-04T14:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110404145207.GB1140@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110404145207.GB1140@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/22-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/04/04/14-52-00)

On Mon, Apr 04, 2011 at 02:13:36AM -0500, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Mon, 2011-04-04 at 00:56 -0500, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > No, I duplicated this on Linux as well (after I tracked down a cocom
> > RPM), but that did make me think of other possibilities.  The difference
> > seems to be if you pass an absolute or relative path to the top-level
> > configure script; only in the latter does it fail as I described.  I
> > presume you've been using an absolute path?
>
>
> This is definitely the problem.  If configure is called with a relative
> path (e.g. mkdir build; cd build; ../configure ...), then srcdir is also
> defined relative, which is then used in VPATH.  But when Makefile.common
> is include()d, it overrides srcdir to an absolute path, the value of
> which is used later in the $(srcdir)/devices.cc: rule.  Since the new
> value of srcdir isn't identical to the old (although functionally the
> same), make doesn't find the dependency automatically.
>
> I see two solutions:
>
> 1) move the VPATH definition to after the Makefile.common inclusion, OR
> 2) change the $(srcdir)/devices.cc: rule to @srcdir@/devices.cc.
>
> Your preference?


The last time I reported that I was using relative paths in the
gcc/binutils/winsup directory I was told "Don't do that.  It isn't
supported."  However, I'll move the call to Makefile.common earlier
in Makefile.in.

Thanks for the analysis.

cgf


