# Re: IsBad*Ptr patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-07T14:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020807210442.GB10258@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020807210442.GB10258@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/07/14-04-00)

On Wed, Aug 07, 2002 at 09:50:06PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> There's nothing explicitly in there (or SUSv3, which is what I'm
> using) but the page only mentions *using* it if the address
> argument is not null.  Also, the code examples in Stevens's "Unix
> Network Programming" for recvmsg(2) simply set the address pointer
> to null and leave the length pointer uninitialised, which would
> make cygwin barf if it were also to check the address length
> pointer.


I don't have this reference.  How can a pointer be uninitialized?

Do they do something like

int *len;
recvmsg(..., NULL, len);

?

That sounds like bad programming to me, but if that is the standard
then ok.

> > > ```diff
> > > @@ -970,7 +978,7 @@
> > > ```
> > >
> > > extern "C" struct hostent *
> > > cygwin_gethostbyaddr (const char *addr, int len, int type)
> > > {
> > > -  if (__check_null_invalid_struct_errno (addr, len))
> > > +  if (__check_invalid_read_ptr_errno (addr, len))
> > >     return NULL;
> >
> >
> > Isn't addr writable?  invalid_struct_errno checks that addr is
>
> in writable
> > memory.
>
>
> It can't be writable: it's a const char *, and this is exactly one
> of cases I found by changing the signature of the checking
> functions.  The addr is just a key into the hosts database.


Doh! Answering technical email with a splitting headache during
meetings.  Always a sure way to embarrass myself.

> I hope my sprinkled replies have helped sort things out: I've
> spent a while going through the SUSv3 definitions checking these.
> Most of it falls out from the const / non-const state of the
> arguments though.


Yep.  Sorry for the noise.

I'm not 100% convinced about the len arguments but go ahead and check
this in and we can sort that out later.  I doubt that anyone would ever
complain about your changes ("Wah!  I wanted to get a ENOSYS by passing
a bad length argument and you wouldn't let me!") so this is really a
non-issue.

Hopefully Corinna won't mind since this is technically her code but 
I think you've more than adequately explained things.

cgf


