# Re: IsBad*Ptr patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-07T14:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [05d101c23e57$b9237220$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/05d101c23e57$b9237220$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/07/14-17-00)

"Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
>
> On Wed, Aug 07, 2002 at 09:50:06PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> >
> > There's nothing explicitly in there (or SUSv3, which is what
>

I'm
> > using) but the page only mentions *using* it if the address
> > argument is not null.  Also, the code examples in Stevens's
>

"Unix
> > Network Programming" for recvmsg(2) simply set the address
>

pointer
> > to null and leave the length pointer uninitialised, which would
> > make cygwin barf if it were also to check the address length
> > pointer.
>
>
> I don't have this reference.  How can a pointer be

uninitialized?
>
> Do they do something like
>
> int *len;
> recvmsg(..., NULL, len);
>
> ?
>
> That sounds like bad programming to me, but if that is the

standard
> then ok.


Sorry, I changed system call half-way through the explanation: I
agree w/ you: no-one should do what the obvious interpretation of
my comments would suggest :-)

What I meant to say was that the recvmsg(2) and sendmsg(2)
functions, which are just slightly generalised versions of the
sendto(2) and recvfrom(2) functions I was discussing, take a
msghdr struct that contains a `socklen_t *' and a `sockaddr *',
and in some of the code examples in the Stevens book, he simply
puts a NULL in the `sockaddr *' and leaves the `socklen_t *' to
fend for itself.

> Doh! Answering technical email with a splitting headache during
> meetings.  Always a sure way to embarrass myself.


Well, that makes two of us w/ headaches this afternoon.  Then
again, I was just posting out what I'd already written this
morning, so my disability wasn't so obvious.  Hope both your
headache and your meeting have passed away by now.

> I'm not 100% convinced about the len arguments but go ahead and

check
> this in and we can sort that out later.  I doubt that anyone

would ever
> complain about your changes ("Wah!  I wanted to get a ENOSYS by

passing
> a bad length argument and you wouldn't let me!") so this is

really a
> non-issue.


I suspect I know what I'd be tempted to reply if someone did try
that . . .

> Hopefully Corinna won't mind since this is technically her code

but
> I think you've more than adequately explained things.


Perhaps I ought to leave it until tomorrow in that case, to give
Corinna a chance to savour the discussion and veto the patch if
necessary.

Thanks for the feedback,

// Conrad




