# Re: [PATCH] Interlocked functions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Pfaff <tpfaff@gmx.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-16T02:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.WNT.4.44.0208161059380.256-100000@algeria.intern.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.WNT.4.44.0208161059380.256-100000@algeria.intern.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/16/02-32-00)



On Thu, 15 Aug 2002, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Thu, Aug 15, 2002 at 09:38:52PM +0200, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
> >
> > With my mutex implementation i ran into the problem that the
> > InterlockedCompareExchange call ist not available on Win95.
> >
> > IMHO there exist 3 possibilities:
> >
> > Do not apply my mutexes :-(
> > Drop support for WIN95.
> > Create assembler versions of the interlocked functions. Now the code will
> > not on run on old i386 machines. This is my favourite solution.
> >
> > Chris has alreay created inline functions for Interlocked... in winbase.h,
> > i have added an ilockcmpexch and converted them into real functions in a
> > new file called winbase.c because i had some trouble with O2 optimization
> > and the inline functions.
>
>
> Argh.  So, you lose all of the inline optimization.  It sounds like you
> have to play with your implementation some more.
>
> The linux kernel manages to work fine with -O2 optimization.  There is no
> reason why we can't do the same.


This is surely true, but the problems that i had were not obvious and
reproducable.
It works most of the time but then the process started eating the cpu or
it crashed after ilockexch. I guess that a register has been modified that
shouldn't get modified but i couldn't see an error in my declarations.
You can be sure that i have tried very hard to get the inline versions
working.
Since the c functions are at least as fast as calling the real
Interlockeds in kernel32.dll i see no reason why not use them and play
with inline functions later.
I will try to divide the fork patch into smaller blocks first before i
will spend more time with inline assembler HowTos.

Thomas


