# Re: [Patch]: Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole (part 1).

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-12-09T03:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20031208221010.0082f7b0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20031208221010.0082f7b0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/30/02-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/12/09/03-11-00)

Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 05:40 PM 12/7/2003 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Sep 29, 2003 at 09:55:25PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Here is a patch that allows to open master ttys without giving
> > > full access to the process, at least for access to the ctty. 
> > >
> > > It works by snooping the ctty pipe handles and duplicating them
> > > on the cygheap, for use by future opens in descendant processes.
> > >
> > > It passes all the tests I tried, but considering my lack of knowledge
> > > about ttys, everything is possible.
> >
> >
> > I checked in a variation of this patch.  It restructures the way
> > controlling tty is handled, making it a little easier to deal with
> > /dev/tty at the fhandler level.  I suspect that eventually there will
> > be a fhandler_ctty class but, for now, this seems to work.
> >
> > I'm not 100% certain that I got the close-on-exec stuff right but, fwiw,
> > it seems to work with the combination of ssh/zsh which is usually a
> > pretty tough test for this kind of thing.  I did check to make sure that
> > access to a tty is now not allowed from a non-privileged account thanks
> > to the tty.cc change below.
> >
> > Thanks for the patch and sorry for the delay.
> >
> > cgf
>
>
> It's mostly fine (rxvt and notty) but starting the following from DOS
> creates a slew of warning from the handler protection code (below).
> However the shell is functional.


When I tried the same dll on an NT4 the errors had disappeared. But that's
a question of luck, i.e. not creating a new handle that matches one that
will be incorrectly deleted multiple times.

I have now traced the problem: when /dev/tty is duplicated, myself->set_ctty
is called again (with the same everything, except new handles), and it 
blindly copies everything over, including the handles.
From there on the test in fhandler_tty_slave::close () doesn't work as 
intended.
Either myself->set_ctty should be smarter, or fhandler_tty_slave::dup
could see if it's about the ctty and simply copy it.

Pierre




