# Re: PATCH: Implementation of functions in netdb.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Craig McGeachie <slapdau@yahoo.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-04T01:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DEE8558.6102.51AEB1@localhost](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DEE8558.6102.51AEB1@localhost) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/18/13-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/04/01-45-00)

2002-11-19 Craig McGeachie <slapdau@yahoo.com.au>
 * netdb.cc (open_system_file, get_entire_line, get_alias_list)
 (open_services_file, parse_services_line, free_servent)
 (cygwin_setservent, cygwin_getservent, cygwin_endservent)
 (open_protocol_file, parse_protocol_line, free_protoent)
 (cygwin_setprotoent, cygwin_getprotoent, cygwin_endprotoent):
 New file.
 * Makeile.in (DLL_OFILES): Add reference to the new netdb.cc
 file.
 * cygwin.din : Add new aliased exports for service and
 protocol enumerations in netdb.cc.


On 2 Dec 2002 at 12:15, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> FYI, we've received your assignment.  Looking forward to a patch
> against CVS sources. 
> Btw, the copyright notice should only list the current year, 2002,
> for any new file. 


Ok.  Here is a patch, diffed against the current CVS sources.  Using 
cvs diff, I can't get the new file included in the diff file, the way I 
did last time so I attached it separately.

I changed the comments to be more useful than "cygwin internal" and 
added some calls to debug_printf, syscall_printf, and paranoid_printf 
where I thought appropiate.  I'm still not happy about the treatment of 
returns from malloc and strdup, where the code is simply assuming that 
valid memory will be returned.  I have at least put the paranoid_printf 
function calls in, but I want something better.  I thought that 
set_errno might be the way to go, but I can't see that that this is the 
right solution.  Should I call set_errno, and return null values?  
Incidentally I function one function that terminated the running 
process with an error code if the call to malloc failed.


----------------+-------------------------------------------------
Craig McGeachie | #include <cheesy_tag.h>
+64(21)037-6917 | while (!inebriated) c2h5oh=(++bottle)->contents;
----------------+-------------------------------------------------




