# RE: [PATCH] Setup.exe "other URL" functionality

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gary R. Van Sickle <g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-01T06:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [NCBBIHCHBLCMLBLOBONKMECJCIAA.g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/NCBBIHCHBLCMLBLOBONKMECJCIAA.g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-21-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/01/06-21-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-owner@cygwin.com [mailto:cygwin-owner@cygwin.com]On Behalf
> Of Robert Collins
>
> Gary, it may be that the new files you gave me were in dos mode, and
> that CVS is having trouble only with files that are in the repo in dos
> mode.
>
> I've run d2u on window.*, proppage.cc and propsheet.cc and checked them
> in. (The whole file showed as changed).
>
> Can you see if this has made life easier for you with cvs diff (only on
> those 4 files).


Yep, it looks like that combined with me now using binary mounts will work
around this.  For reasons I don't quite understand though, I couldn't simply do
a "cvs diff", but had to move my file (now with LFs-only), do a "cvs update" to
re-get the cvs version (which also has LFs-only now), replace that with the file
I just moved, and *then* it works.  I have no idea what to make of that.

But there's a few more files that need this treatment (it looks like they're
still CRLF in the repository database):

cistring.{cc,h}
desktop.h (but not .cc)
localdir.h
net.{cc,h} (it looks like .cc may be 'half and half', I s**t you not)
proppage.h
propsheet.h
root.h
source.h
splash.h (bot not .cc)
threebar.{cc,h}

So almost but not quite every new file I sent you (or maybe that is all of
them).  And these were all CRLFs.

Attached is a diff (the patch to date, LF-only) that may or may not be of use in
fixing this.  The changes have *not* been run through indent (with the exception
of two headers) - I did finally notice the

"void foo::bar()"

vs.

"void
foo:bar()"

issue you had mentioned, among others, and I have no explanation for why I
should see it and not you.  I have no .indent.pro, I'm on a binary mount like I
said, I'm using no options, and it's "GNU indent 2.2.7" as distributed by
Cygnus.  I have attempted to cleave to the GNU formatting as best as my own
sense of aesthetics and limited PITA IDE (VC6) allow, but I'm sure there's
plenty there that isn't RMS chapter and verse.

Also attached is my changelog for this patch to date in the hope that this will
put this patch to bed.

--
Gary R. Van Sickle
Brewer.  Patriot.


---

**Attachments:**

- [setup.diff](setup.diff) (application)
- [ChangeLog.setup.grvs](ChangeLog.setup.grvs) (application)
