# Re: console: new mouse modes, request/response attempt

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Wolff <towo@towo.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-04-03T19:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4F7B54E1.9070105@towo.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4F7B54E1.9070105@towo.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/18-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/04/03/19-52-00)

Am 02.04.2012 22:40, schrieb Christopher Faylor:
> On Mon, Apr 02, 2012 at 09:50:17PM +0200, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > Am 02.04.2012 20:50, schrieb Christopher Faylor:
> > > On Mon, Apr 02, 2012 at 08:46:31PM +0200, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > > ...
> > > > * semi-fix for missing terminal status responses
> > > > The fix tries to detect the proper fhandler for CONIO, which is then
> > > > used to queue the response.
> > > > Problem 1: I am not sure whether this detection is proper in all cases,
> > > > what e.g. if /dev/tty is reopened etc. I don't know where else a
> > > > relation between the handles for CONIN and CONOUT might be established.
> > > > Problem 2: While the response reaches the application with this patch,
> > > > only the first byte is read right-away. Further bytes are delayed until
> > > > other input is becoming present (typing a key). This may (or may not) be
> > > > related to other issues with select(), so maybe it's worth analyzing it.
> > > >
> > > > Thomas
> > > > diff -rup sav/fhandler.h ./fhandler.h
> > > > ```diff
> > > > --- sav/fhandler.h	2012-04-01 19:46:04.000000000 +0200
> > > > +++ ./fhandler.h	2012-04-02 15:47:22.385727000 +0200
> > > > @@ -1282,8 +1282,11 @@ class dev_console
> > > >
> > > >     bool insert_mode;
> > > >     int use_mouse;
> > > > +  bool ext_mouse_mode6;
> > > > +  bool ext_mouse_mode15;
> > > >     bool use_focus;
> > > >     bool raw_win32_keyboard_mode;
> > > > +  fhandler_console * fh_tty;
> > > >
> > > >     inline UINT get_console_cp ();
> > > >     DWORD con_to_str (char *d, int dlen, WCHAR w);
> > > > diff -rup sav/fhandler_console.cc ./fhandler_console.cc
> > > > --- sav/fhandler_console.cc	2012-04-02 00:28:55.000000000 +0200
> > > > +++ ./fhandler_console.cc	2012-04-02 18:02:26.004016200 +0200
> > > > @@ -139,6 +139,8 @@ fhandler_console::set_unit ()
> > > >     if (shared_console_info)
> > > >       {
> > > >         fh_devices this_unit = dev ();
> > > > +      if (this_unit == FH_TTY)
> > > > +	dev_state.fh_tty = this;
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > > You *definitely* just can't squirrel away a pointer to a random fhandler
> > > here.
> >
> > ...
>
> `this' is a pointer to a fhandler.  You can't just store it in a static
> location and use it whenever you want later.  You have no idea how long
> this fhandler will be around.  What happens if it's destroyed?

Yes, that's why I mentioned problem 1 above. The patch is experimental, 
and it revealed that even if the missing relation could be properly 
established, there's still the other problem... (see below).
> > > Do we really care about console mode that much now that mintty is the
> > > default?
> >
> > Maybe not, but the fact that it works partially but subsequent
> > characters are postponed resembles the other problem that I have just reported
> > tocygwin@cygwin.com, which makes me wonder whether there is one common problem.
> >
> >
> > Also when I originally tweaked the mouse code, I couldn't completely
> > understand the code in select.cc (only got it to work by pattern
> > matching code...). I did notice, however, that select and read were
> > inconsistent in the sense that an application having called select()
> > with a positive response may not be able to get a byte with a subsequent
> > read(), because criteria were re-evaluated and could have different
> > results (esp. in border cases). I did fix it by strictly applying the
> > same guard routine for both cases, but only for the mouse code branch.
>
> If you have an example of actual failing code then please post it.

My point is: The function that doesn't work here, 
puts_readahead/put_readahead,
is also called in fhandler_pty_master::accept_input () (fhandler_tty.cc)
and in fhandler_termios::line_edit () (fhandler_termios.cc),
and I remember pipe and/or pty problems being discussed recently.
Also there is the "input delay issue" in mintty/xterm I described (and 
by the way, I forgot to mention it does not happen anymore in the 
terminal after rlogin to another system) and somehow I suspect they 
might have a common cause, or similar causes.
------
Thomas


