# RE: cygserver debug output patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@syncretize.net> |
| **To** | 'Conrad Scott' <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-11T07:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [00a901c21152$f82c52c0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/00a901c21152$f82c52c0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-19-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/11/07-19-00)



> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com 
> [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Conrad Scott
> Sent: Tuesday, 11 June 2002 5:58 AM
>
>
> This defines the same set of XXX_printf macros as does 
> sys/strace.h: of
> these, system_printf maps to a printf on stderr and the 
> others ditto if the
> DEBUGGING flag is given (i.e. --enable-debugging) and no-ops 
> otherwise. They
> also use __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ to give more information about 
> the problem
> location.
>
> I've also added more debugging calls into the code, whenever 
> I got really
> lost, basically :-)


All cool. I'll actually review this tomorrow night, I've used my hacking
time tonight already :[.

> Apart from that, just a couple of minor changes to a pthread_once_t
> initialisation and some pure virtual functions on the
> cygserver_transport_base class.
>
> I hope this is all fine (Robert et al). I'll continue with 
> some more hacking
> around fun. Umm . . . sorry, make that "careful development" :-)


It's great. Welcome to the club. There's a grand total of three
contributors to the cygserver code - Egor, myself... and you.

One nit: your changelog doesn't say *what* from
cygserver_transport_pipes.cc you are moving to woutsup.h. 

> p.s. I've attached the new "woutsup.h" file separately as I couldn't
> convince cvs diff to put it into the patch file. I thought the -N flag
> should do it, but I had no luck. Could someone give me a hint? Thanks.


You need CVS access to make that work right... then you can CVS add, and
use the -N flag, and then cvs remove without ever committing. 

Rob


