# Reorganizing internal_getlogin()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-06-09T20:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20020609231253.008044d0@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20020609231253.008044d0@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/09/20-15-00)

Corinna,

internal_getlogin() has evolved over time. Currently it has two 
purposes:
1) set Cygwin variables (e.g. cygheap->user, HOME, prgpsid,...)
2) set traditional Windows environment entries (e.g. HOMEPATH)

It is called in 3 cases:
a) Entry from Windows
b) From seteuid()
c) After CreateProcessAsUser()

The purpose in cases a) and c) is 1 above.
The purpose in case  b) is mainly 2. 

I propose to reorganize the code by breaking 
internal_getlogin() in two functions, one that does 1) and 
another that does 2). The main purpose is to increase the efficiency,
as explained below, as well as fixing some nits, e.g. 
LOGONSERVER is never updated.

The first function would be called in cases a) and c), although
it would do very little in case c).
The second one would be called in spawn_guts(), just before
the CreateProcessAsUser() [when the environment is copied to
the cygheap]. 
There would be no call to internal_getlogin() from seteuid(). 
The few Cygwin fields that need updating in seteuid() 
[e.g.user.name] would be handled in seteuid() itself, where
the info is readily available.
These changes would improve the performances of servers [such as 
mail servers] that setuid() repeatedly but exec() only rarely,
in particular avoiding lookups over the network. 

As a first step in this process, the attached patches contain the 
modifications that add function 2). They can already be applied
although internal_getlogin() is not touched. It will be simplified
in a second phase. This will allow you to more easily check what's
going on.  

I worry (because I can't test) that this might break applications 
using sexecXX calls, although I don't see how it would. Are there 
any still around? It would be easy to bypass the new code for sexecXX 
calls, if needed.

2002-06-09  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* environ.cc (addWinDefEnv): New.
	(inWinDefEnv): New.
	(writeWinDefEnv): New.
	* spawn.cc (spawn_guts): Call functions above to set
	traditional Windows environment variables when copying the
	environment to the cygheap, before CreateProcessAsUser().
	Define sec_attribs and call sec_user_nih() only once.
	* environ.h: Declare inWinDefEnv() and addWinDefEnv(), and 
	define WINDEFENVC.

Pierre


---

**Attachments:**

- [spawn.cc.diff](spawn.cc.diff) (text)
- [environ.h.diff](environ.h.diff) (text)
- [environ.cc.diff](environ.cc.diff) (text)
