# Re: [PATCH] DocBook XML toolchain modernization

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Warren Young <warren@etr-usa.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-04-30T20:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [51802510.5000803@etr-usa.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/51802510.5000803@etr-usa.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/04/30/20-09-00)

On 4/30/2013 13:07, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 12:58:49PM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
>
> > Do you mean for me to check these changes in when I get my sourceware
> > account?
>
>
> Yes, with the implied assumption that you won't be breaking anything.


Of course.

Some questions from the original post:

- When a change is checked in to the docs, does it immediately propagate 
to the public web site, or is there a manual publication process?  I 
mean, if the build is technically broken for a few seconds while I check 
in a batch of changes, does it immediately break cygwin.com?  If so, 
that would require that I check in only self-contained change sets even 
if it means long CVS log messages.

- Am I right that we no longer need the second FAQ output format?

- http://cygwin.com/faq.html appears to be assembled from a site-wide 
style/navigation file and winsup/doc/faq/faq.html.  Is that right, and 
if so, do you mind if I add a target to the Makefile that gets you a 
secondary variant of faq.html containing just the <body> tag's contents? 
  Embedding <html> within <html> is eeevil.

- Do you want me to do the proposed doctool to Doxygen conversion, so we 
can get rid of doctool?

- If I get rid of doctool, do you agree that we no longer need Autoconf 
for the docs?

- Is someone using the @srcdir@ feature of the current doc build system 
to build outside the source tree?  (e.g. mkdir foo ; cd foo ; 
../configure && make)  If so, is my "SRCDIR=.. ; make -f ../Makefile" 
alternative acceptable?

(If no one is using the @srcdir@ feature, then we *definitely* don't 
need Autoconf any more after doctool goes away.)

- Any comments about the other items in my FUTURE WORK section? 
Unconditional green light, or do you want to approve them one by one?


