# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: update cygbench call to use getprogname()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Thirumalai Nagalingam <thirumalai.nagalingam@multicorewareinc.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-10-25T17:08:11+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [1a8dda5a-6d7f-4436-b944-2aecefa95191@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1a8dda5a-6d7f-4436-b944-2aecefa95191@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/19-16-21.thread.md#:~:text=2025/10/25/16-08-11)

On 21/10/2025 20:16, Thirumalai Nagalingam wrote:
> Hi,
>
> Please find below small patch that replaces __progname with getprogname() in winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc.


Thanks.

>    *   On AArch64 local builds of Cygwin, __progname is not defined in the startup objects which causes a build failure.


Hmm... I think I probably need to see the rest of the associated changes 
to properly evaluate this.

Can you share a link?

>    *   This symbol is legacy to be replaced with getprogname() API, which is implemented in "winsup/cygwin/libc/bsdlib.cc" and exported across all supported targets.


It seems like it's a shortcoming of doc/posix.xml (the source for [1]) 
that it doesn't list data exports, only API functions.

But I think that probably needs a definitive list of obsolete elements 
removed on arm64.

[1] https://cygwin.com/cygwin-api/

>    *   Using getprogname() aligns Cygwin's startup code with the current libc conventions, avoids reliance on globals, and ensures consistent builds on aarch64 platforms.
>
>
> Thanks & regards
> Thirumalai N
>
> ============
> In-lined patch:
>
> ```diff
> diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc b/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc
> index 69c233c24..0758ec735 100644
> --- a/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc
> +++ b/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc
> @@ -964,7 +964,7 @@ dll_crt0_1 (void *)
>     /* Disable case-insensitive globbing */
>     ignore_case_with_glob = false;
>
> -  cygbench (__progname);
> +  cygbench (getprogname());
> ```
>


Is it possible to write program_invocation_short_name here?

(I can't really work out what's going on internally and externally with 
__progname and program_invocation_short_name. It looks like since 
bded8091c438d18e1d259864d773891a747c7576 we're meant to be exclusively 
using the latter internally, so this could just be a mistake)

(I actually wonder if getprogname() actually returns the right value 
now, and if so, how...)



