# Copyright outdated? in Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 and not addressed in Cygwin FAQ 7.1 link

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-02-20T13:20:16-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [6b01a995-96e5-7b46-3323-1cf348d25252@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/6b01a995-96e5-7b46-3323-1cf348d25252@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-20-16.thread.md#:~:text=2023/02/20/20-20-16)

Hi folks,
[Addressing to patches as that's where we'll fix it, and not a general issue.]

Noticed that:

https://x.cygwin.com/docs/faq/cygwin-x-faq.html#q-copyright-cygwin

"12.6. Who holds the copyright on the Cygwin source code?

Red Hat owns the copyright on the Cygwin source code. Red Hat requires that 
copyright be assigned to Red Hat for non-trivial changes to Cygwin. You must 
fill out a copyright transfer form if you are going to contribute substantial 
changes to Cygwin."

Has that not been assigned to the project?

And also:

https://cygwin.com/faq/faq.html#faq.what.copyright

"7.1. What are the copyrights?
7.1.
What are the copyrights?
Please see https://cygwin.com/licensing.html for more information about Cygwin 
copyright and licensing."

->

"Cygwin™ Linking Exception
As a special exception, the copyright holders of the Cygwin library"

Is that the project?

Or does it belong to the authors individually and/or the project or the "Cygwin 
authors" collectively?

Could we please be as current and explicit as possible in the FAQs once current 
situation is clear and wording is agreed?

Thinking that Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 should defer to Cygwin FAQ 7.1.

Willing to submit FAQ patches ;^>

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis			Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte			Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter	not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer	but when there is no more to cut
			-- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


