# Re: Copyright outdated? in Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 and not addressed in Cygwin FAQ 7.1 link

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca>, Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-02-20T22:00:07Z |
| **Message-ID** | [c22f1341-217c-3a61-c075-6f86bb812385@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c22f1341-217c-3a61-c075-6f86bb812385@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-20-16.thread.md#:~:text=2023/02/20/22-00-07)

On 20/02/2023 20:20, Brian Inglis wrote:
> Hi folks,
> [Addressing to patches as that's where we'll fix it, and not a general 
> issue.]
>
> Noticed that:
>
> https://x.cygwin.com/docs/faq/cygwin-x-faq.html#q-copyright-cygwin
>
> "12.6. Who holds the copyright on the Cygwin source code?
>
> Red Hat owns the copyright on the Cygwin source code. Red Hat requires 
> that copyright be assigned to Red Hat for non-trivial changes to Cygwin. 
> You must fill out a copyright transfer form if you are going to 
> contribute substantial changes to Cygwin."
>
> Has that not been assigned to the project?
>
> And also:
>
> https://cygwin.com/faq/faq.html#faq.what.copyright
>
> "7.1. What are the copyrights?
> 7.1.
> What are the copyrights?
> Please see https://cygwin.com/licensing.html for more information about 
> Cygwin copyright and licensing."
>
> ->
>
> "Cygwin™ Linking Exception
> As a special exception, the copyright holders of the Cygwin library"
>
> Is that the project?
>
> Or does it belong to the authors individually and/or the project or the 
> "Cygwin authors" collectively?
>
> Could we please be as current and explicit as possible in the FAQs once 
> current situation is clear and wording is agreed?
>
> Thinking that Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 should defer to Cygwin FAQ 7.1.


Yes.

12.3 and 12.6 should just be links to places where correct information 
can be found.

> Willing to submit FAQ patches ;^>


Please do so.

Note that the source for this FAQ is docbook in [1]

[1] https://cygwin.com/git/cygwin-apps/xorg-doc.git



