# Re: Copyright outdated? in Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 and not addressed in Cygwin FAQ 7.1 link

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-02-20T15:57:02-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [790a2571-2bb8-bc37-ac16-d6bd27798311@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/790a2571-2bb8-bc37-ac16-d6bd27798311@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-20-16.thread.md#:~:text=2023/02/20/22-57-02)

On 2023-02-20 15:00, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 20/02/2023 20:20, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > Hi folks,
> > [Addressing to patches as that's where we'll fix it, and not a general issue.]
> >
> > Noticed that:
> >
> > https://x.cygwin.com/docs/faq/cygwin-x-faq.html#q-copyright-cygwin
> >
> > "12.6. Who holds the copyright on the Cygwin source code?
> >
> > Red Hat owns the copyright on the Cygwin source code. Red Hat requires that 
> > copyright be assigned to Red Hat for non-trivial changes to Cygwin. You must 
> > fill out a copyright transfer form if you are going to contribute substantial 
> > changes to Cygwin."
> >
> > Has that not been assigned to the project?
> >
> > And also:
> >
> > https://cygwin.com/faq/faq.html#faq.what.copyright
> >
> > "7.1. What are the copyrights?
> > 7.1.
> > What are the copyrights?
> > Please see https://cygwin.com/licensing.html for more information about Cygwin 
> > copyright and licensing."
> >
> > ->
> >
> > "Cygwin™ Linking Exception
> > As a special exception, the copyright holders of the Cygwin library"
> >
> > Is that the project?
> >
> > Or does it belong to the authors individually and/or the project or the 
> > "Cygwin authors" collectively?
> >
> > Could we please be as current and explicit as possible in the FAQs once 
> > current situation is clear and wording is agreed?
>


Please note above statement - I have no idea who owns the copyrights - X says RH 
- Cygwin waffles about copyright holders - nothing says who they are - I 
suggested alternatives - someone needs to tell me!

> > Thinking that Cygwin/X FAQ 12.6 should defer to Cygwin FAQ 7.1.
>
>
> Yes.
>
> 12.3 and 12.6 should just be links to places where correct information can be 
> found.
>
> > Willing to submit FAQ patches ;^>
>
>
> Please do so.
>
> Note that the source for this FAQ is docbook in [1]
>
> [1] https://cygwin.com/git/cygwin-apps/xorg-doc.git


-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry



