# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Add /dev/disk/by-id symlinks

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2023-11-04T10:34:52+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZUYQPPsrxf5yp1Ir@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZUYQPPsrxf5yp1Ir@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/11-57-51.thread.md#:~:text=2023/11/04/09-34-52)

On Nov  3 18:54, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov  3 17:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Nov  3 17:09, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Unlike (S)ATA and NVMe, the serial number
> > > > is not available for free in the device identify data block but requires an
> > > > extra command (SCSI INQUIRY of VPD page 0x80). This might not be supported
> > > > by the emulated controller or Windows does not use this command.
> > >
> > > AFAICS, only the data from STORAGE_DEVICE_ID_DESCRIPTOR is available
> > > which is equivalent to the data from VPD page 0x83.  As you can see,
> > > it's part of the STORAGE_DEVICE_UNIQUE_IDENTIFIER data.  The data
> > > returned for the VirtIo device is the identifier string "\x01\x00",
> > > which is a bit underwhelming.
> > >
> > > Would be great if we would learn how to access page 0x80...
> >
> > Uhm...
> >
> > MSDN claims:
> >
> > ```
> >    If the storage device is SCSI-compliant, the port driver attempts to
> >    extract the serial number from the optional Unit Serial Number page
> >    (page 0x80) of the VPD.
> >
> > ```
> >
> > Now I'm puzzled.
>
>
> A quick test with a Debian 12 VM in VirtualBox with many virtual
> controllers+drives shows the same problem:
> Entries in /dev/disk/by-id appear only for virtual disks behind emulated
> SATA and NVMe controllers, but not for SCSI and SAS controllers.
> A test with "smartctl -i ..." with SCSI/SAS devices doesn't print a serial
> number. In debug mode it prints "Vital Product Data (VPD) INQUIRY failed..."
> and other messages that suggest limited/buggy support of optional SCSI
> commands.
>
> If a Win11 PE (from install ISO) is run in same VM, the
> STORAGE_DEVICE_DESCRIPTOR only provides the serial number for SATA (NVMe
> drives not detected), but not for SCSI.
>
> Conclusion: The behavior of the current patch is compatible with Linux :-)


Ok, but with the DUID we have a workaround which makes it  work even
better than on Linux, so it would begreat if we used it, unless we find
out where the UUID in "\GLOBAL??\Disk{<UUID>} comes from...

Given the size of the STORAGE_DEVICE_UNIQUE_IDENTIFIER struct, we could
even contemplate a 128 bit hash, just to be on the safe side.


Corinna


