# Re: [PATCH] Fix parameter passing containing quote/equal to Windows batch command

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Daniel Dai <daijyc@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-01-22T07:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CABDpyChf5uEgBTX_1vSE_zu7bMiaxKXOhtbzZzTkW6J-OXNN+g@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CABDpyChf5uEgBTX_1vSE_zu7bMiaxKXOhtbzZzTkW6J-OXNN+g@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/06-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/01/22/07-11-00)

Max,
Yes, you are right. I did a "echo %*" mistakenly in my bat script on Windows.

In terms of consistency, this one does makes a difference (parameter
contains space):

int main(int argc, char** argv) {
```
    execl("a.bat", "a.bat", "a b");
    return 0;
```

}

On cygwin, $1=="a b", on Windows however, I get %1==a. Cygwin quote
the parameters containing space automatically.

Anyway, I am not bothered by inconsistent behavior between
Windows/Cygwin. What I really care about is fixing the quote issue,
otherwise I have no way to pass parameter with equal sign to bat.

Thanks,
Daniel



On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 5:15 PM, Max Polk <maxpolk@gmail.com> wrote:
> On 1/21/2014 4:27 AM, Daniel Dai wrote:
> >
> > Max,
> > Thanks for your reply.
> >
> > Yes, the double quote issue can be reproducible from command line, but
> > not the equal sign.
> >
> > Let's demonstrate the equal sign issue with a C program:
> >
> > #include "unistd.h"
> >
> > int main(int argc, char** argv) {
> > ```
> >      execl("a.bat", "a.bat", "a=b");
> >      return 0;
> > ```
> >
> > }
> >
> > The intention of the program is to pass "a=b" as a single argument.
> > However, compile and run it under cygwin, I get:
> > $ cc -o myprog myprog.c
> > $ ./myprog
> > a
> >
> > I run the program with Visual Studio, I get "a=b".
> >
> > The way Windows/Unix handles parameter containing equal sign is
> > different. IMHO, Cygwin should be the place to fill this semantic gap.
>
>
>
> In Visual Studio, you don't get "a=b", you get the same results, a and b are
> separate arguments.
>
> (Run from cmd.exe window)
> C:\path>BatchTest.exe
>
> C:\path>FIRST a
> SECOND b
> THIRD
>
> (Run from bash.exe)
> $ BatchTest.exe
> $ FIRST a
> SECOND b
> THIRD
>
> Source code to Visual Studio project:
>
> ```
> #include "stdafx.h"
> #include <process.h>
>
> int _tmain(int argc, _TCHAR* argv[])
> ```
>
> {
>     _execl ("Argecho.bat", "Argecho.bat", "a=b", NULL);
> }
>
> Script for Argecho.bat:
>
>
> @echo off
> echo FIRST %1
> echo SECOND %2
> echo THIRD %3
>
> Cygwin looks consistent with both Visual Studio compiled app calling a batch
> file and the command line calling the batch file.  It looks the same both
> ways.
>



