# Re: [PATCH] Setup Chooser integration

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-03T06:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020403143152.GF4053@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020403143152.GF4053@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/03-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/03/06-31-00)

On Tue, Apr 02, 2002 at 03:14:28PM -0600, Gary R Van Sickle wrote:
> > Image: you click on 'install' for 'gcc', and up pops a window 
> > that lists
> > everything that gcc depends on (both requires as we have today, and
> > 'suggested' items that aren't always needed but are useful - ie
> > autoconf), that was not selected before that click. 
> >
>
>
> I'm drawing a blank at the utility of such a feature, at least in the guise
> of a popup of any kind.  You're saying that as you go through the dozens of
> packages you want and select them, that a box pops up bugging you about the
> dependencies of each selection, which you can't do anything about anyways?
> That sounds like it would be extremely irritating.


Ditto.  I also have to admit that I don't see how this corresponds with any
complaints or requests that I've seen in the cygwin mailing list.

> > Likewise, if you click ash off, up pops a window listing everything
> > that depends on ash, with an addiotnal message of "Warning: removing
> > ash will cause these packages to be removed as well.
> >
>
>
> This does make quite a bit of sense to me.  But wouldn't MessageBox()
> or something akin to it be a better fit to the task?  The only possible
> user input here would be "Yes, remove ash and everything dependent on
> it" and "Cancel", and the only output a list of package names.


Actually, I think that automatically removing dependencies is not a good
idea.  If I select binutils specifically, then select gcc, then uninstall
gcc, I would probably be annoyed to see binutils disappear.

cgf


