# Re: finding fast_cwd_pointer on ARM64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-26T17:25:31-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ec73a729-57e8-11f7-78be-ab78bde6c0a6@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ec73a729-57e8-11f7-78be-ab78bde6c0a6@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../25/19-21-23.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/27/01-25-31)

On Tue, 26 Nov 2024, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:

> On Tue, 26 Nov 2024, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Btw...
> >
> > We're doing this because nobody being able to debug ARM64 assembler came
> > up with a piece of code checking the ntdll assembler code to find the
> > address of the fast_cwd_pointer on ARM64.
> >
> > You seem to have the knowledge and the means to do that, Jeremy.
> >
> > Any fun tracking this down?
>
>
> Ha, no, not really.  I looked into something similar trying to get Ruby
> running on Windows on ARM64, and learned enough to know that how ARM64
> encodes addresses is odd enough that I didn't want to dig further ;)
>
> Somebody else did end up implementing getting a private variable (out of
> UCRT) by looking at ARM64 assembler, maybe that could work as a starting
> point?
>
> https://github.com/ruby/ruby/commit/784fdecc4c9f6ba9a8fc872518872ed6bdbc6670#diff-883ccab70529ab9c4e51fa7b67e178a205940056b21cd123115ebadd8029f50f



I had a quick look in the debugger, and it's even worse than that...

First, because we're running emulated x64 code, the address returned from
GetProcAddress is an x64 stub, presumably to exit emulation and call the
native function.  Ok, not too bad, there's a jmp instruction in there to
the ARM64 function...  In RtlGetCurrentDirectory_U, again pretty
straightforward, first call is to RtlpReferenceCurrentDirectory... In that
function, however, is where things get intesting.  It's still much the
same theory as described for x86_64, however:

1) note that loading an absolute pointer on ARM64 involves 2 instructions.
The instructions getting the address of the fast peb lock and the fast cwd
pointer are actually *interleaved*, the upper bits of the fast cwd pointer
are loaded before the upper bits of the fast peb lock, but the lower bits
are not added until *after* the RtlEnterCriticalSection call.

2) the registers used differ between Windows 10 22H2 and Windows 11 23H2
(these are what I had handy - who knows what other versions do).

Also, because of the x64 stub thing, the address you'd get from
GetProcAddress for RtlEnterCriticalSection would differ from the native
RtlEnterCriticalSection actually called by the ARM64 code.


