# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: allow changes of the priority

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-27T10:14:48+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [a4acc9e3-8363-b9af-e92e-b3a865b18d20@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/a4acc9e3-8363-b9af-e92e-b3a865b18d20@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/18-56-49.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/27/09-14-48)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 25 21:20, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Christian,
> > >
> > > On Nov 25 15:00, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > Fixes: ...?
> > > >
> > > > ... the very first commit (cgf 2001) of sched.cc :-)
> > > >
> > > > New patch attached.
> > > >
> > > >   From e95fc1aceb5287f9ad65c6c078125fecba6c6de9 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> > > > From: Christian Franke <christian.franke@t-online.de>
> > > > Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2024 14:51:04 +0100
> > > > Subject: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: allow changes of the priority
> > > >
> > > > Behave like sched_setparam() if the requested policy is identical
> > > > to the fixed value (SCHED_FIFO) returned by sched_getscheduler().
> > > >
> > > > Fixes: 6b2a2aa4af1e ("Add missing files.")
> > >
> > > Huh, yeah, this is spot on.  I wonder if it would make sense to change
> > > that to 9a08b2c02eea ("* sched.cc: New file.  Implement sched*.")
> > > though, given that was the patch intended to add sched.cc :)))
> > >
> > > Sorry, but I have to ask two more questions:
> > >
> > > - Isn't returning SCHED_FIFO sched_getscheduler() just as wrong?
> >
> > Definitly. SCHED_FIFO is a non-preemptive(!) real-time policy. Windows does
> > not offer anything like that to userland (AFAIK).
> >
> > https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/sched.7.html
> >
> > I wonder whether there was a use case for this emulation when this module
> > was introduced in 2001.
>
> Just guessing here, but using one of the RT schedulers was the only way
> to enable changing the priority from user space and using SCHED_FIFO was
> maybe in error.
>
> > > ```
> > >     Shouldn't that be SCHED_OTHER, and sched_setscheduler() should check
> > >     for that instead?  Cygwin in a real-time scenario sounds a bit
> > >     far-fetched...
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> > Agree.
> >
> > Note that SCHED_OTHER requires sched_priority == 0, so most of the
> > sched_get/set*() priority related code would no longer make sense then.
>
> This is the other problem. Changing this to SCHED_OTHER sounds like
> dropping potentially used functionality.  Maybe we should just switch to
> SCHED_RR?


Yes, it at least would be closer to what windows does. It is still 
non-preemptive from the point of view of lower priorities. I don't know 
what the Win32 *_PRIORITY_CLASSes actually do.

As far as I understand the related documentation, a more sophisticated 
emulation (aka fake) of SCHED_* would be:

- Allow to switch between SCHED_OTHER (default) and SCHED_RR with 
sched_setscheduler().

- If SCHED_OTHER is selected, change PRIORITY_CLASS with setpriority() 
and ignore (or fail on?) attempts to change sched_priority with 
sched_setparam().

- If SCHED_RR is selected, ignore setpriority() and change 
PRIORITY_CLASS with sched_setparam().

Possibly not worth the effort...

-- 
Regards,
Christian



