# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: allow changes of the priority

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-27T16:44:23+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [36947dfd-fa1b-0845-7017-c4f162926e16@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/36947dfd-fa1b-0845-7017-c4f162926e16@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/18-56-49.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/27/15-44-23)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 27 10:14, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Nov 25 21:20, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > - Isn't returning SCHED_FIFO sched_getscheduler() just as wrong?
> > > >
> > > > Definitly. SCHED_FIFO is a non-preemptive(!) real-time policy. Windows does
> > > > not offer anything like that to userland (AFAIK).
> > > >
> > > > https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/sched.7.html
> > > >
> > > > I wonder whether there was a use case for this emulation when this module
> > > > was introduced in 2001.
> > >
> > > Just guessing here, but using one of the RT schedulers was the only way
> > > to enable changing the priority from user space and using SCHED_FIFO was
> > > maybe in error.
> > >
> > > > > ```
> > > > >      Shouldn't that be SCHED_OTHER, and sched_setscheduler() should check
> > > > >      for that instead?  Cygwin in a real-time scenario sounds a bit
> > > > >      far-fetched...
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > > Agree.
> > > >
> > > > Note that SCHED_OTHER requires sched_priority == 0, so most of the
> > > > sched_get/set*() priority related code would no longer make sense then.
> > >
> > > This is the other problem. Changing this to SCHED_OTHER sounds like
> > > dropping potentially used functionality.  Maybe we should just switch to
> > > SCHED_RR?
> >
> > Yes, it at least would be closer to what windows does. It is still
> > non-preemptive from the point of view of lower priorities. I don't know what
> > the Win32 *_PRIORITY_CLASSes actually do.
>
> Who does? :}
>
> > As far as I understand the related documentation, a more sophisticated
> > emulation (aka fake) of SCHED_* would be:
> >
> > - Allow to switch between SCHED_OTHER (default) and SCHED_RR with
> > sched_setscheduler().
> >
> > - If SCHED_OTHER is selected, change PRIORITY_CLASS with setpriority() and
> > ignore (or fail on?) attempts to change sched_priority with
> > sched_setparam().
> >
> > - If SCHED_RR is selected, ignore setpriority() and change PRIORITY_CLASS
> > with sched_setparam().
> >
> > Possibly not worth the effort...
>
> Why not?  It should probably also allow SCHED_FIFO for backward compat,
> since, in a way, it doesn't really matter anyway.  This would be nice
> for 3.6.


OK, I'll try to provide a patch.


> And I think your patch here should go in as is, just with the release
> message in release/3.5.5 so we can cherry-pick it to the 3.5 branch.


Attached. Message moved to 3.5.5 and "Fixes:" changed as suggested.



---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Cygwin-sched_setscheduler-allow-changes-of-the-prior.patch](0001-Cygwin-sched_setscheduler-allow-changes-of-the-prior.patch) (text)
