# Re: Produce beeps using soundcard

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Max Bowsher <maxb@ukf.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-02-13T22:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [028d01c2d3af$d592f230$78d96f83@pomello](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/028d01c2d3af$d592f230$78d96f83@pomello) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/13/22-32-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Thu, Feb 13, 2003 at 08:39:21PM -0000, Max Bowsher wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Thu, Feb 13, 2003 at 01:34:28AM +0100, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Hi,
> > > > this small patch adds an ability to produce beeps (\a) using
> > > > soundcard by MessageBeep() call. It can be enabled by new CYGWIN
> > > > option winbeep.
> > >
> > >
> > > I'm sorry but I really don't want to add too many options to the
> > > CYGWIN environment variable.  I don't think this really justifies an
> > > option.
> >
> >
> > Does that mean it will replace the current beep, or is it a
> > rejection of the patch? I would really like this - Beep() can be
> > quite painful if you're wearing headphones!. MessageBeep would be
> > controllable via the volume settings, but Beep is just a maximum
> > volume blast!
> >
> > Does it really *matter* for there to be lots of options in CYGWIN? I
> > can't see any disadvantage at all.
>
>
> I don't like to introduce lots of unnecessary decision points into a
> product.  It increases support and it increases code complexity.


Complexity? Slightly, but only at CYGWIN-parsing time, and Beeping time.
That's not that much, surely?

> Once again, how does linux handle this scenario?  You don't do a
> "export LINUX=linbeep" to get linux to use the soundcard.


If Vaclav is correct - that it required a kernel module - I think this
question is answered.

Max.


