# Re: Dumper produces unuseable dumps (fix).

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-04-27T06:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20070427062022.GC4978@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20070427062022.GC4978@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/20-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/04/27/06-20-00)

Hi Pedro,

On Apr 26 21:37, Pedro Alves wrote:
> Hi guys,
>
> I noticed that dumper isn't working for me, silently exiting
> without producing a dump, so I tried building it from source.
> The problem was that the bfd_set_arch_mach (core_bfd, bfd_arch_i386, 0)
> call was failing.  I couldn't debug it, since it was linked
> into the system /usr/lib/libbfd.a, which doesn't come with
> debug info.  I then tried to link with with a cvs bfd, and that
> problem goes away.
>
> But, I then found out that gdb wasn't reading the dumps.  After
> some investigation, I found that the core file is built with
> section headers, and no program headers.  Since it is
> bfd_make_section_from_phdr that makes the magic sections that
> gdb reads from, the current dumper makes useless core dumps.
> [...]
> The attached patch fixes it by programatically making a
> phdr for each section.  I now get readable dumps.
> [...]
> Could this fix be considered for inclusion, please?


Thanks for this patch.

Unfortunately, the patch is too big to fall under the trivial patch
rule, so Red Hat needs a signed copyright assignment from you.
Please have a look on http://cygwin.com/contrib.html, especially the
"Before you get started" section, which has a link to the assignment
form.  As soon as we got the signed form from you, the patch can go
in.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


