# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-12-18T15:24:24-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [6e67d97e-60a0-4bff-8a4e-cf4e90411603@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/6e67d97e-60a0-4bff-8a4e-cf4e90411603@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/18/22-24-24)

On 2025-12-18 00:45, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> If Cygwin were merely a personal project of yours, I would understand and
> probably agree.
>
> However, Cygwin is used (via the MSYS2 runtime) in Git for Windows, and by
> extension millions of users rely on it.
>
> Therefore, it would be good to at least publish those local tests.
> Ideally, a good deal of thought should be spent on figuring out a way to
> integrate the tests into the CI builds.
>
> You mentioned winsup/testsuite, and I do agree that it sounds more than
> just tricky to integrate the tests there. Essentially, you would probably
> end up reimplementing AutoHotKey's fundamental functionality: sending
> keystrokes and inspecting the results.
>
> Now, to be sure, running AutoHotKey-based tests is a lot more finicky than
> running winsup/testsuite. In the absence of any better idea, though, I
> would take the confidence from having tests over not having tests, any
> day. After all, you and I are both fully aware of the unfortunate pattern
> in the code under discussion where on multiple occasions, bug fixes
> introduced new bugs whose fixes introduced yet other bugs, etc ad nauseam.
> If AutoHotKey-based tests can help break that pattern, let's integrate
> them.


Who will port AHK to Cygwin tools to make it available as a package?

Alternatively, do we really need to:

	https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?t=9806

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


