# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-12-18T16:53:38-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [2fa791d4-9569-432d-b062-68bb8136e1ef@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2fa791d4-9569-432d-b062-68bb8136e1ef@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/18/23-53-38)

On 2025-12-18 15:24, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2025-12-18 00:45, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > If Cygwin were merely a personal project of yours, I would understand and
> > probably agree.
> >
> > However, Cygwin is used (via the MSYS2 runtime) in Git for Windows, and by
> > extension millions of users rely on it.
> >
> > Therefore, it would be good to at least publish those local tests.
> > Ideally, a good deal of thought should be spent on figuring out a way to
> > integrate the tests into the CI builds.
> >
> > You mentioned winsup/testsuite, and I do agree that it sounds more than
> > just tricky to integrate the tests there. Essentially, you would probably
> > end up reimplementing AutoHotKey's fundamental functionality: sending
> > keystrokes and inspecting the results.
> >
> > Now, to be sure, running AutoHotKey-based tests is a lot more finicky than
> > running winsup/testsuite. In the absence of any better idea, though, I
> > would take the confidence from having tests over not having tests, any
> > day. After all, you and I are both fully aware of the unfortunate pattern
> > in the code under discussion where on multiple occasions, bug fixes
> > introduced new bugs whose fixes introduced yet other bugs, etc ad nauseam.
> > If AutoHotKey-based tests can help break that pattern, let's integrate
> > them.
>
>
> Who will port AHK to Cygwin tools to make it available as a package?
>
> Alternatively, do we really need to:
>
>      https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?t=9806

Also, you can do a lot using read with -p prompt (example queries xterm info):

	read -s -t 1 -N 128 -p $'\E['"$p"'t' -d t r

where $p are CSI query params in prompt, delimiter 't', reply $r.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry



