# Re: [Dr.Volker.Zell@oracle.com: Re: uxterm from xterm-185-3 and xfontsel crashing when running under cygserver support]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-03-30T16:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040330162402.GB8138@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040330162402.GB8138@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-34-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/03/30/16-24-00)

On Tue, Mar 30, 2004 at 03:55:14PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 30 15:34, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
> > Regardless whether a process is started from a cygwin app or not it will
> > always start at mainCRTStartup. 
> >
> > When it is started by the SCM however the service_main thread is created by
> > the SCM. The situation is similar to calling CreateThread instead of
> > pthread_create. The thread will be handled as anonymous since it is not in the thread
> > list and has not been initialized in thread_init_wrapper.
>
>
> Yeah, I just realized this while in the shower.
>
> > I think the easiest way is to modify pthread::init_mainthread in a way that
> > it handles such a situation properly and will keep the pthread_self pointer
> > unchanged after a fork.
>
>
> Do you have an appropriate patch?
>
> > But you can also change cygrunsrv to create a thread via pthread_create and
> > fork from this thread. This should work either.
>
>
> That's not the way to go, IMO.  It requires *all* Cygwin applications
> written to be started under SCM to be rewritten.


Right.  I've been working hard to keep cygwin functional with cygrunsrv
and SCM.  In fact, I think I've removed the requirement that inetd has
to fork a process after it calls SCM so that signals are delivered properly.

Since this is a breaking of backwards compatibility we won't even consider
changing applications.

I've read the rest of the thread and know that there is a patch ready but I
wanted to get these thoughts into the archive.

cgf


