# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-10-17T17:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121017170514.GD10578@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121017170514.GD10578@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/17/17-05-00)

On Oct 17 12:44, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Oct 17, 2012 at 06:13:18PM +0200, Kai Tietz wrote:
> > -[ "$dir" = '/' ] && dir=''
> > +[ "$dir" = '/' ] && dir='';
>
>
> No need for a semicolon here.
>
> I have other comments but I wonder if it would just be best to scrap this
> script and assume that there is a mingw compiler installed.  When I first
> wrote this script there was no mingw compiler in the distro.  Now there
> is.  So I think we should just make that a requirement for building.


When I told Kai what to do I was always grumpy about requiring a
non-cygwin compiler to build parts of Cygwin.  That's why this
mingw script allows to build with a mingw64, a mingw32 or a cygwin
compiler.

But it really looks like the easiest solution is to require a mingw
compiler since the mingw headers and libs have to be installed anyway.

That just requires to change configure.in to test for a
${cpu}-w64-mingw32 compiler and to define MINGW_CXX accordingly, afaics.

> Then, no more head standing is required.
>
> > Index: winsup/Makefile.common
> > ===================================================================
> > RCS file: /cvs/src/src/winsup/Makefile.common,v
> > retrieving revision 1.59
> > diff -p -u -3 -r1.59 Makefile.common
> > ```diff
> > --- winsup/Makefile.common	30 Jul 2012 04:43:21 -0000	1.59
> > +++ winsup/Makefile.common	17 Oct 2012 15:21:32 -0000
> > ```
> >
>
>
> Can we just get rid of this as well?  That's what I did in my now-unneeded
> revamp of the configury in the cygwin git repository.
>
> I think I'd rather just move everything into winsup, cygserver, utils and
> not bother with this "common" stuff.


But it's still a nice way to have certain definitions only once.
The BSD build systems use something similar.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


