# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: process_fd: Fix handling of archetype fhandler

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-24T09:10:16+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250724091016.f04b1709e164619f58b21032@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250724091016.f04b1709e164619f58b21032@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/12-32-32.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/24/00-10-16)

On Wed, 23 Jul 2025 14:53:33 +0200
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul 23 19:55, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > On Wed, 23 Jul 2025 11:04:02 +0200
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jul 22 21:32, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > Previously, process_fd did not handle fhandler using archetype
> > > > correctly. Due to lack of PC_OPEN flag for path_conv, build_fh_pc()
> > > > could not initialize archetype. Because of this bug, accessing pty
> > > > or console via process_fd fails.
> > > >
> > > > With this patch, use build_fh_name() with PC_OPEN flag instead of
> > > > build_fh_pc() to set PC_OPEN flag to path_conv.
> > >
> > >
> > > Your patch fixes the issue, ok, but I don't understand why this occurs.
> > >
> > > If the process opens /proc/PID/fd/N with PID != MYPID, it uses the
> > > PICOM_FILE_PATHCONV commune request.  It copies the path_conv member
> > > of the fd from the target process and this pc is used in the
> > > build_fh_pc() call.
> > >
> > > And here's what I don't get: If the pc has been fetched from a valid,
> > > open file descriptor in the target process, why is the PATH_OPEN
> > > flag not set?
> >
> >
> > Thanks for reviewing.
> >
> > I looked into open process, and noticed that this is because fh_alloc()
> > called from build_fh_name() does not copy argument pc.path_flags to
> > fh->pc.path_flags.
>
>
> No, wait.  build_fh_name() creates a path_conv instance and that in turn
> is used to call build_fh_pc().  build_fh_pc() calls fh_alloc() and then
> calls fh->set_name (pc) in allmost all scenarios.  This in turn should
> copy pc.path_flags, because the underlying path_conv::<< operator is
> basically a memcpy().


In the case use_archetype() is true, fh->set_name(pc) does not seem
to be called.
https://cygwin.com/git/?p=newlib-cygwin.git;a=blob;f=winsup/cygwin/dtable.cc;h=f1832a1693d45d5fd1e27acb830d5a12a6a34238;hb=HEAD#l683

>
> So this looks like PATH_OPEN hasn't been set when creating descriptor
> FD in process PID.
>
> I don't see that PATH_OPEN gets removed at one point, it's set once and
> then just checked for in the path_conv::isopen() method.  And the flags
> should be inherited from parent to child via cygheap copy.
>
> So, afaics, the descriptor has originally been opened without PC_OPEN,
> i.e., not via open(2).
>
> Given we're talking about ptys here, openpty(3) comes to mind, but that
> uses open(2) as well.
>
> It could also be inherited from a non-Cygwin parent.  That would
> create the fhandler via dtable::init_std_file_from_handle().  This
> does actually not call open or set PATH_OPEN.
>
> Am I missing something?  I'd really like to understand why the PATH_OPEN
> flag isn't set, and if that's correct as is.  Adding a missing PC_OPEN
> or PATH_OPEN to some place or other could just as well be the right
> thing to do here.


-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


