# Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joel Sherrill <joel.sherrill@OARcorp.com> |
| **To** | J. Johnston <jjohnstn@cygnus.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-28T08:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3AC21396.979DB2C7@OARcorp.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3AC21396.979DB2C7@OARcorp.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/01-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/28/08-42-00)

"J. Johnston" wrote:
>
> Robert Collins wrote:
> >
> > Hi,
> >     Chris Faylor has asked to bring a discussion we've been having
> > cygwin-developers to the newlib list. The topic it pthread type
> > definitions && pthread defines.
> >
> > I've include a couple of extracts below, but the short summary and
> > history is
> > I'm attempting to extend the current cygwin pthreads support, going from
> > specifications at www.opengroup.org. As part of that work I wanted to
> > move the cygwin pthread*_t type definitions to sys/types.h which the
> > standard says is appropriate.
>


Seems reasonable.  I think at the time this was done RTEMS owned
pthread.h
and we just used newlib's sys/types.h.  This is all an artifact of
trying to
add-on to newlib's .h files.  It was only recently that we integrated as
much as possible.

The only RTEMS specific .h file in newlib is now direct.h.

> > When I did that I noticed that
> > a) (minor) newlib has pthread DEFINES in sys/types - the specs I'm
> > reading suggest they should be in pthreads.h and
>
>
> Yes, the PTHREAD_xxx defines should be in pthread.h.  Only the _t types should be in sys/types.h.


This is probably my fault.  opengroup must be clearer than the POSIX
spec. 

> > b) (major) new has typedef'd the pthread*_t types as structs, not
> > pointers. IMO having theortically opaque types defined as structs is
> > dangerous - both because you cannot extend the capabilities in the
> > future without breaking the ABI and because it encourages userland
> > programs to alter the contents directly rather than via the API.
> >
> > It should be safe from an ABI point of view to convert from structs to
> > void* pointers, as long as dependent system libraries are able to use a
> > different typedef at compile time (in cygwin I have a #ifndef
> > __INSIDE_CYGWIN__ \ userland types \#else \system types\#endif). However
> > if any user programs have 'peeked' inside the structures, they will need
> > to be rebuilt when their system library gets updated..
> >
>
>
> Again, I agree with you.


Sounds reasonable to me now.  

> Joel, you are being cc'd  as these changes modify code added for RTEMS.  Any problems with making
> these changes (i.e. does the RTEMS stuff have to be protected for the time-being)?


Are you asking if there needs to be an "__INSIDE_RTEMS__" conditional
path to
define the structures like __INSIDE_CYGWIN__?  We already use 

AM_CPPFLAGS += -D__RTEMS_INSIDE__ 

inside RTEMS itself to share header files.  So if you use that define, 
I would think that neither RTEMS itself nor any apps will even notice.  

> -- Jeff J.
>
> > Rob
> >
> > On Thu, Mar 22, 2001 at 08:16:57AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > Well we can't turn on _POSIX_THREADS. And I don't think we should...
> > > a) I've read enough of the spec now to say fairly confidently that
> > > cygwin will not be conformant for a very long time. (Setting the stack
> > > address, setting a guard buffer for the stack...). So turning on
> > > _POSIX_THREADS will be misleading. Autoconf feature tests find all the
> > > functions quite well.
> > > b) the newlib _POSIX_THREADS types are broken IMO. They are reasonable
> > > structures and so forth but for userland includes they should be opaque
> > > to the user, and not a struct but rather a struct pointer to allow
> > > behind the scenes changes without breaking the ABI. (better yet, a void
> > > * for real opaqueness).
> > > c) the newlib includes have things in weird places- the pthreads
> > > #defines should be in pthreads.h not sys/types.
> >
> >
> > Ok.  I didn't know this.  I wonder how much should be handled by fixing
> > newlib, though?  If there are changes that make things more conformant
> > then they should go in newlib.  I am sure that the newlib maintainers
> > would like to fix things if they're out of whack.
> >
> > cgf
> >
> > ----- Original Message -----
> > From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
> > To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> > Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2001 9:30 AM
> > Subject: Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs
> >
> > > On Thu, Mar 22, 2001 at 09:23:19AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > On the technical side the newlib maintainers are facing the same
> > >
> >
> > problem
> > > > I did with pthreads (Changing at this date may break ABI and or
> > >
> >
> > existing
> > > > #if code. Secondly they may have users who have used the fact that
> > >
> >
> > the
> > > > userland includes allowed access to the internal elements of the *_t
> > > > types. (Which is a bad thing). I understand newlib exists because
> > > > proprietary software can be linked to it when it's sold under the
> > >
> >
> > second
> > > > licence... so the maintainers may well have contractual issues crop
> > >
> >
> > up
> > > > if they start fixing these things up.
> > >
> > >
> > > I think that all of the pthreads stuff was added by external
> >
> > contributors,
> > > actually.
> > >
> > > Would you mind raising this issue on the newlib mailing list?  If no
> >
> > one
> > > seems interested then we'll pursue a cygwin-only solution.
> > >
> > > cgf
> > >
> >
>


-- 
Joel Sherrill, Ph.D.             Director of Research & Development
joel@OARcorp.com                 On-Line Applications Research
Ask me about RTEMS: a free RTOS  Huntsville AL 35805
Support Available                (256) 722-9985


