# Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | J. Johnston <jjohnstn@cygnus.com> |
| **To** | Joel Sherrill <joel.sherrill@OARcorp.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-28T12:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3AC249A8.1ADD0384@cygnus.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3AC249A8.1ADD0384@cygnus.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/01-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/28/12-29-00)

Joel Sherrill wrote:
>
> Joel Sherrill wrote:
> >
> > Just to make sure I understand .. What you intend to do for
> > structure is effectively this:
> >
> > #ifdef __RTEMS_INSIDE__
> > typedef struct {
> > ```
> >   int is_initialized;
> >   void *stackaddr;
> >   int stacksize;
> >   int contentionscope;
> >   int inheritsched;
> >   int schedpolicy;
> >   struct sched_param schedparam;
> >
> >   /* P1003.4b/D8, p. 54 adds cputime_clock_allowed attribute.  */
> > ```
> >
> > #if defined(_POSIX_THREAD_CPUTIME)
> >   int  cputime_clock_allowed;  /* see time.h */
> > #endif
> >   int  detachstate;
> >
> > } pthread_attr_t;
> > #else /* in user land */
> > typedef void * pthread_attr_t;
> > #endif
> >
> > If this is not the case, then I need to be educated further to make
> > an intelligent decision. :)
> >
> > --joel
>
>
> Something just bothered me... from opengroup.org
>
> ```
>      #include <pthread.h>
>      int pthread_attr_init(pthread_attr_t *attr);
>
>      int pthread_attr_destroy(pthread_attr_t *attr);
>
> ```
>
> Shouldn't I be able to write this code?
>
> {
> ```
>   pthread_attr_t my_attr;
>   pthread_attr_init( &my_attr );
> ```
>
> }
>
> The RTEMS implementation assumes that the user is providing the memory
> for the structure.  If you change the user view so pthread_attr_t is
> a void *, we break.
>
> On types like pthread_t, RTEMS is really a unsigned 32 bit integer
> and we again assume that the user is providing that space.
>
> Not letting the user know the size is broken for us.  I agree that it is
> certainly
> bad form for them to look inside.
>


After thinking a little further on this, IMO it is best to separate out the pthread types from
sys/types.h since they are extremely system-specific.  This is how glibc handles it.  So, we have a
separate header: sys/pthreadtypes.h which contains the pthread types.  A default header file will
exist in the libc/include/sys directory, however, each system that supports pthreads will have its
own version of sys/pthreadtypes.h in their sys directory which will override the default.

If a system wants to hide the internals they can use anonymous field names or structs simply padded
to the appropriate size which allows the user-scenario above.  FWIW: glibc doesn't seem to worry
about it and exposes the structs.  

-- Jeff J.


