# /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Andy Younger <andylyounger@hotmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-03-28T15:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [F28ukp53NVBRIoni4u60000de19@hotmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/F28ukp53NVBRIoni4u60000de19@hotmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/28/15-07-00)

Hi,

Here is my first revision of the /dev/dsp device for cygwin.

This patch is very much a work in progress, it only supports writing to 
/dev/dsp & even then only supports a small subset of the IOCTLs. The subsets 
it does supports is enough to get my current test applications, mpg123, 
mikmod & ogg123 to work with no source-code modifications to the playback 
code.

I have also modifed /dev/dsp so that when you cat a wav file through it, it 
groks the format and sets itself up accordingly. You do get a couple of 
clicks as the header & footer go through the playback, which I should really 
fix, anyway doing
  cat testsample.wav >/dev/dsp
should work fine, although I still have to fix the dup() to behave better.

My assignment paperwork has just been sent off, so I presume I can't 
actually properly submit anyhing for a while, but any feedback will be 
welcomed. I am not overly familiar with Changelog formats, diff files etc, 
so any pointers would be well appreciated.

Anyway..


Stuff still to do
-----------------

I am supplying my modified version of the linux soundcard.h, I have actually 
done my own cut down version of it which only has the things I currently 
support through emulation. But for testing purposes it is easier for me to 
use the original. I am not sure of the licencing issues for this header 
file. Presumably I should redo mine to use the same id's for all the 
definitions as the linux one, so we have some form of compatiblity. 
Presumably projects such as LINE would benefit from this.

Fix dup() functionality to work properly, currently if you kill "cat 
whatever.wav >/dev/dsp"
it crashes out.

Make /dev/dsp locked behaviour (under win9X) behave better.

Fix up to be properly thread safe, I don't fully understand the issues 
related to callbacks, are they in the same process context regardless of 
number of processors etc? should find out & clean up code accordingly.

Support many more IOCTL commands.

Support reading from /dev/dsp as well

Support subset of /dev/mixer

Support more unusual sound formats such as ulaw etc, then I can set up 
/dev/audio etc.


CHANGELOG:
----------
Wed Mar 28 2001 Andy Younger <andylyounger@hotmail.com>

	* fhandler_dsp.cc: new file. Implements OSS like /dev/dsp
	* include/sys/soundcard.h: new file. User land includes for OSS /dev/dsp
	* fhandler.h: add new class fhandler_dev_dsp and a FH_OSS_DSP definition
	* makefile.in: add fhandler_dsp.o
	* dtable.cc (dtable::build_fhandler): allow creation of the /dev/dsp
	  device.
	* path.cc (windows_device_names): add /dev/dsp into list of device
	  names

DIFF:
-----

The diff was created by,

	diff -up src.original/winsup/cygwin/ src/winsup/cygwin/  >dsp.diff

is this ok, or do I need to do something different?


Cheers, Looking forward to some feedback.

Andy.


_________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com .


---

**Attachments:**

- [files.tar.gz](files.tar.gz) (application)
