# Re: winsup/cygwin/lib/getopt.c -mno-cygwin (solution?)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Earnie Boyd <earnie_boyd@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-22T07:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3BACA5AF.2370DFD2@yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3BACA5AF.2370DFD2@yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/06-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/22/07-52-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> On Fri, Sep 21, 2001 at 08:33:40PM -0400, Norman Vine wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor writes:
> > > It just occurred to me that people who haven't been able to build
> > > strace.exe may have an older Makefile that does not incorporate the
> > > changes that I made to Makefile.in which add -I...mingw/include to
> > > the mingw_getopt.o compilation.
> > >
> > > I'm not sure how that could happen since my Makefile is regenerated
> > > automatically if the Makefile.in is newer but it sure sounds like
> > > this is the problem.
> > >
> > > The __argv declarations should be coming from mingw's stdlib.h.  There
> > > should be no way that this needs to declare this explicitly if the
> > > right header file is being included.
> >
> >
> > This is indeed my problem my make is picking up  stdlib.h from newlib
> > and not the from the mingw tree
>
>
> Ok.  It looks like this is a problem with the VERBOSE entry in
> Makefile.in.  I only changed one part of the ifdef which outputs less
> information in a build to exclude the newlib directories.
>
> I've checked in a patch.
>


Ok, this fixes it.  I have a different issue with RXVT not displaying
the error message for the bad switch but that's a different beast.

> I'm not sure why you were executing the VERBOSE part of the Makefile by
> default but that's a minor bug.  I doubt that anyone besides me really
> wants the non-VERBOSE output anyway.
>


It's always worked backwords for me as far as I perceive it.  It appears
from the coding of the Makefile that VERBOSE should be set to get the
VERBOSE version of the build.  However, it appears to me that I get
VERBOSE even though VERBOSE isn't specified.  It's not been that
important to me so I've never a round tuit for this.

Earnie.

_________________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com



