# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-24T02:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041224022710.GB20554@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041224022710.GB20554@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/24/02-25-00)

On Thu, Dec 23, 2004 at 06:23:06PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> I have run some more tests with a built from cvs this afternoon
> and peeked at some of the changes, so here is some feedback.
>
> When a process is terminated from Windows, the reported exit code
> is 0. This can easily be fixed by initializing exitcode to
> the value it should take when a process is terminated.


Ok.  I see that the old version of cygwin exited with a status of 1.
I think it is more appropriate to exit with a SIGTERM.

The side effect of doing things this way is that the program will seem
to have exited with a SIGTERM value if it calls ExitProcess, too.
That is a depature from previous behavior that I'm sure I'll hear about.

> If my spawn(P_DETACH) program of yesterday is terminated from 
> Windows during the sleep interval, then the parent process does
> not notice the termination and keeps waiting.


I think I already mentioned this as a side effect of the new code.

> This can be fixed with my lunch time ideas of yesterday.
> Looking at the code, I saw that most of them were already 
> implemented. The only changes are:
> 1) remove child_proc_info->parent_wr_proc_pipe stuff
> 2) in pinfo::wait, duplicate into non-inheritable wr_proc_pipe


As may not be too surprising, I already considered creating the pipe
before creating the process (somehow I am hearing echoes of John Kerry
here).  I actually coded it that way to begin with but then chose to go
with the current plan.

I'll have to think about my reasons for not implementing it that way.
I don't remember what they are right now.

cgf


