# stopping floppy seeks (Was: available for test: findutils-20041219-1)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-24T09:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [41CBE1E1.51CB9AE6@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/41CBE1E1.51CB9AE6@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](09-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/24/09-26-00)

Brian Dessent wrote:

> > Let me say it again.  This is not new behavior:
> >
> > 2003-08-05  Pavel Tsekov  <ptsekov AT gmx.net>
> >
> >         * path.cc (cygdrive_getmntent): Do not skip over drives of type
> >         DRIVE_REMOVABLE.
> >
> > Perhaps you should be discussing this with Pavel.
>
>
> Okay, I misunderstood.  I thought that you were saying someone had
> posted a patch that would prevent checking floppy drives in that section
> of the code.  I now see that it used to be the case that this was done,
> and the above patch removed that functionality.
>
> I have no idea what Pavel's intentions were with his change.  I can only
> guess it was to support /cygdrive use with some form of removable media,
> perhaps floppy, perhaps otherwise.  However at the time it was
> committed, there was no mount checking code in find, and so there were
> no spurious floppy seeks for opening a login shell and many other
> activities.  I will CC him on this email to see if he wants to clarify.
> It seems to me that making this behavior settable through a CYGWIN env
> option would satisy everyone, but I'm also quite sure that no patch I
> submit to implement this would be accepted, mainly due to not having a
> copyright assignment on file.


Here is a patch.  If $CYGWIN does not contain "removable" (or contains
"noremovable") then /cygdrive's where GetDriveType() returns
DRIVE_REMOVABLE are skipped, avoiding the annoying floppy seeks. 
CYGWIN=removable works the same as current code.

Note: I don't know if this would be considered trivial or not.  Nor do I
know if it satisfies Pavel's needs.  Just thought I'd post it anyway.

2004-12-24  Brian Dessent  <brian@dessent.net>

	* environ.cc: Add extern decl for `cygdrive_removable'.
	(struct parse_thing): Add entry for `[no]removable'. 
	* path.cc (cygdrive_getmntent): Ignore drive letters of 
	removable drives, unless `cygdrive_removable' set.


---

**Attachments:**

- [removable.diff](removable.diff) (text)
