# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Fix ONDEE for 64bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-03-05T08:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130305084950.GB16361@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130305084950.GB16361@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/08-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/03/05/08-50-00)

On Mar  5 00:09, Yaakov wrote:
> On Mon, 4 Mar 2013 15:40:22 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar  4 14:15, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Thanks, but here's a question:  If the libgcj ABI version really changes
> > > with every GCC major.minor release, wouldn't it then make sense to
> > > change the libgcj DLL versioning scheme so it uses the GCC major.minor
> > > number rather than an arbitrary version number?
> > >
> > > In other words, why not cyggcj-4.8.dll?  This would allow easy
> > > automation of Cygwin's LIBGCJ_SONAME, and everybody would know what
> > > GCC version it's based on.
> >
> >
> > Here's my version of the LIBGCJ_SONAME setting:
> >
> > ```
> > #ifndef BUILDING_GCC_MAJOR
> > #include "bversion.h"
> > #endif
> > #define ___cyg_mkstr(x) #x
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > #define __cyg_mkstr(x)  ___cyg_mkstr(x)
> > #define LIBGCJ_SONAME "cyggcj-" __cyg_mkstr (BUILDING_GCC_MAJOR) "." \
> > 				__cyg_mkstr (BUILDING_GCC_MINOR) ".dll"
> > ```
> >
>
>
> I don't know if the version changes are a matter of policy or just how
> it has happened, but in any case that's not the current versioning
> scheme, nor is it how libtool libraries are usually versioned (and no,
> libgnat is not built with libtool).  As long as this continues, the
> following would work instead if you want to automate it:


Where exactly is the problem?  I thought *we* can define how the DLL is
called.  Is anything outside of the GCC toolchain expecting a specific
DLL name and relying on it?  I also don't understand the connection to
libgnat.  Does it load libgcj dynamically?  If not, why is it important
to libgnat how the libgcj DLL is called?!?

> #define LIBGCJ_SONAME "cyggcj-" __cyg_mkstr (BUILDING_GCC_MINOR+6) ".dll"
>
> Also, you missed the #undef CXX_WRAP_SPEC_LIST before #define
> CXX_WRAP_SPEC_LIST in cygwin-w64.h; this avoids a bunch of warnings
> building GCC.


That wasn't in cygwin.h either.  I fix that.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


