# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Make gcc-specific code in <sys/cpuset.h> compiler-agnostic

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-07-08T13:59:35-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [589a2704-d690-60f4-4818-687233699c4c@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/589a2704-d690-60f4-4818-687233699c4c@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/07-41-21.thread.md#:~:text=2023/07/08/20-59-35)

Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2023-07-07 12:54, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2023-07-07 03:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Mark,
> > >
> > > On Jul  7 00:41, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > The current version of <sys/cpuset.h> cannot be compiled by Clang due to
> > > > the use of __builtin* functions.  Their presence here was a dubious
> > > > optimization anyway, so their usage has been converted to standard
> > > > library functions.  A popcnt (population count of 1 bits in a word)
> > > > function is provided here because there isn't one in the standard library
> > > > or elsewhere in the Cygwin DLL.
> > >
> > >
> > > And clang really doesn't provide it?  That's unfortunate.
> > >
> > > Do you really think it's not worth to use it if it's available?
> > >
> > > You could workaround it like this:
> > >
> > > > ```
> > > > +/* Modern CPUs have popcnt* instructions but the need here is not worth
> > > > + * worrying about builtins or inline assembler for different compilers. */
> > > > +static inline int
> > > > +__maskpopcnt (__cpu_mask mask)
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > +{
> > >
> > > #if (__GNUC__ >= 4)
> > >       return __builtin_popcountl (mask);
> >
>
>
> Missed the difference in spelling, but clang supports the same builtin functions 
> __builtin_popcount{,l,ll} et. al. or provides *optimized* inline functions if not 
> directly available as an instruction on the architecture.


Clang in its current version 16.0.x has __builtin_popcount*, but not in the 
ancient version 8.0.1 that is currently packaged for Cygwin.  I think that's what 
was behind Jon's earlier comment that perhaps we should remove clang from Cygwin 
unless/until somebody can adopt and maintain an up-to-date version.  :-(.

..mark


