# Re: [PATCH] mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-12-04T02:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011204022400.v2zM-5zgKcj75xoqUzawsIW1nNA3S599kogwMufSFRU@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011204022400.v2zM-5zgKcj75xoqUzawsIW1nNA3S599kogwMufSFRU@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/01/05-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/12/04/02-24-00)

On Mon, Dec 03, 2001 at 11:22:54PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Dec 03, 2001 at 09:24:47PM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > It just occurred to me that the patch I submitted for mkpasswd.c causes one
> > of its error messages to be a bit misleading.  If you ask mkpasswd for a
> > user that doesn't exist it will say:
> > "NetUserEnum() failed with error 2221.
> > That user doesn't exist."
> >
> > While the error number is correct, and the explanation on the second line is
> > right, it's not actually NetUserEnum that's been called to determine that.
> > I don't know if you care about this, but maybe the following patch could be
> > thrown in to make that error a bit more generic (and correct).
>
>
> I agree that the user doesn't have to know about NetUserEnum but the
> error message should be something like "mkpasswd: user doesn't exist".
>
> Some of the messages are like this already.  Are you interested in
> genercizing the rest of the mkpasswd warnings?
>
> cgf


I agree.  It would be nice(tm) to have an error message as the above
"mkpasswd: user doesn't exist" or, if actually an error occurs, to
have a "mkpasswd: <Win32 error message>".  That's not only useful for
mkpasswd but for all tools calling Win32 error directly.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


