# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: thread: Allow fast_mutex to be acquired multiple times.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-03-26T18:14:04+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250326181404.847ecfadcad8977024580575@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250326181404.847ecfadcad8977024580575@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/05-53-21.thread.md#:~:text=2025/03/26/09-14-04)

Hi Corinna,

On Mon, 24 Mar 2025 16:35:08 +0100
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 24 22:05, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > On Mon, 24 Mar 2025 11:57:06 +0100
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Mar 24 14:53, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > Previously, the fast_mutex defined in thread.h could not be aquired
> > > > multiple times, i.e., the thread causes deadlock if it attempted to
> > > > acquire a lock already acquired by the thread. For example, a deadlock
> > > > occurs if another pthread_key_create() is called in the destructor
> > > > specified in the previous pthread_key_create(). This is because the
> > > > run_all_destructors() calls the desructor via keys.for_each() where
> > > > both for_each() and pthread_key_create() (that calls List_insert())
> > > > attempt to acquire the lock. With this patch, the fast_mutex can be
> > > > acquired multiple times by the same thread similar to the behaviour
> > > > of a Windows mutex. In this implementation, the mutex is released
> > > > only when the number of unlock() calls matches the number of lock()
> > > > calls.
> > >
> > >
> > > Doesn't that mean fast_mutex is now the same thing as muto?  The
> > > muto type was recursive from the beginning.  It's kind of weird
> > > to maintain two lock types which are equivalent.
> >
> >
> > I have just looked at muto implementation. Yeah, it looks very
> > similar to fast_mutex with this patch. However, the performance
> > is different. fast_mutex with this patch is two times faster
> > than muto when just repeatedly locking/unlocking. If two threads
> > compete for the same mutex, the performance is almost the same.
>
>
> Ok, nice to know.  With fast_mutex being mostly faster and being
> recursive with your patch, maybe we could replace all mutos with
> this fast_mutex?
>
> > > I wonder if we shouldn't drop the keys list structure entirely, and
> > > convert "keys" to a simple sequence number + destructor array, as in
> > > GLibc.  This allows lockless key operations and drop the entire list and
> > > mutex overhead.  The code would become dirt-easy, see
> > > https://sourceware.org/cgit/glibc/tree/nptl/pthread_key_create.c
> > > https://sourceware.org/cgit/glibc/tree/nptl/pthread_key_delete.c
> > >
> > > What do you think?
> >
> >
> > It looks very simple and reasonable to me.
> >
> > > However, for 3.6.1, the below patch should be ok.
> >
> >
> > What about reimplementing pthread_key_create/pthread_key_delete
> > based on glibc for master branch, and appling this patch to
> > cygwin-3_6-branch?
> >
> > Shall I try to reimplement them?
>
>
> That would be great!


What about the patch attached?
Is this as you intended?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


---

**Attachments:**

- [pthread_key.patch](pthread_key.patch) (text)
