# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: Change pthread_sigqueue() to accept thread id

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-11-05T12:37:31+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [bf4fbc09-f47d-61a9-3eaf-eaa6eef12197@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/bf4fbc09-f47d-61a9-3eaf-eaa6eef12197@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/19/09-13-20.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/05/11-37-31)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov  4 15:34, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov  4 12:50, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > ...
> > > > > - Invent a #define that allows to use the old function.
> > > >
> > > > We don't need this.  We only want backward compat to keep existing
> > > > executables running.  So we need The old and wrong pthread_sigqueue only
> > > > as exported symbol.  On recompiling the affected project, the bug
> > > > hopefully shows up and can be easily fixed.
> > >
> > > Providing such a feature (only) for a few upcoming Cygwin releases would
> > > allow maintainers (e.g. me maintaining stress-ng) to easily provide packages
> > > which are backward compatible with still available [prev] versions of the
> > > DLL.
> >
> > We never did that yet.  Going forward, we try to maintain backward
> > compatibility for new versions of Cygwin to existing executables, but we
> > never promised or maintained backward compatibility for newly built
> > executables to old versions of Cygwin.  That's setting an uncomfortable
> > new precedent.
> >
> > *Iff* we do this, then it should be least intrusive for the header,
> > i. e., add a new entry point and use that in the backward compat case,
> > kind of like this:
> >
> > -------------------------------------------------------------
> >
> > int pthread_sigqueue (pthread_t, int, const union sigval)
> >
> > #ifdef _CYGWIN_USE_BUGGY_PTHREAD_SIGQUEUE
> >
> > // TODO: Add some comment explaining this hack :-)
> > int __pthread_sigqueue_buggy (pthread_t *, int, const union sigval)
> > ```
> >    __attribute__((__warning__("Using old version of pthread_sigqueue()")))
> >    ;
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > #define pthread_sigqueue(a,b,c)	__pthread_sigqueue_buggy ((a),(b),(c))
> >
> > #endif
> > -------------------------------------------------------------
> > ```
> >
>
> I guess if it's only part of the 3.5 backport, it's ok.


A closer look might suggests that there are no use cases for packages in 
the Cygwin distro:

I did a quick check unpacking all *.dll *.exe *.so (with --backup=t) 
files (~20GiB) from all x86_64/release/**tar* files from a local Cygwin 
mirror. An 'objdump -p' on each file (total 24Gib) lists 
pthread_sigqueue only for the various cygwin1.dll releases. Even the 
stress-ng package I maintain isn't affected because the related stress 
test is guarded with #ifndef __CYGWIN__.

-- 
Regards,
Christian



