# Re: mingw - free_osfhnd

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Danny Smith <danny_r_smith_2001@yahoo.co.nz> |
| **Date** | 2002-09-04T02:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1031130306.9180.12.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1031130306.9180.12.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/04/02-04-00)

On Wed, 2002-09-04 at 18:56, Danny Smith wrote:
>  --- Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> wrote: > On Wed, 2002-09-04 at
> 13:29, Danny Smith wrote:
> > >  --- Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> wrote: > Changelog:
> > > >
> > > > 2002-09-04  Robert Collins  <robertc@cygwin.com>
> > > >
> > > > 	* msvcrt.def: Export _free_osfhnd.
> > > >
> > > > Is this ok Earnie/Danny?
> > >
> > >
> > > I can't see this in my msvcrt.dll.  Where do you see it?
> > > Danny
> >
> >
> > Its one of the undocumented internals... along with _get_osfhnd and
> > _set_osfhnd. (I think that _get_osfhnd is there already).
>
>
> No, only the *_osfhandle functions that are documented. 
>
> >
> > The NT Native port of squid, build with Visual C uses this when linking
> > to MSVCRT. As a reference in 1999 XEmacs started using this call, but
> > they defined it locally rather than patching mingw from what I can tell.
> >
> > Rob
> >
>
>
> Okay, but do you see it in mscvrt.dll?  I can't see it in the export table
> anywhere.  I would accept that the internals may be available from the static
> libc but not from dll (ms doesn't do the --export-all, for good reason, I
> suspect)


Hmm, well there is an interesting thing then. I simply added it to the
def, rebuilt and copied that to /usr/include/mingw. Then I linked the
program that had been recieving mising symbols on link, and voila' - it
worked.

Leave it with me/Guido until we get the whole program ported. It may be
that I haven't actually used it fully yet.

Rob


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
