# Re: [PATCH] /proc/loadavg: add running/total processes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-04-01T08:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110401082746.GD25000@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110401082746.GD25000@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/30/00-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/04/01/08-28-00)

On Apr  1 02:21, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Wed, 2011-03-30 at 12:27 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar 30 03:54, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > > On Wed, 2011-03-30 at 10:13 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Mar 29 19:32, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > > > > This patch adds the fourth component of Linux's /proc/loadavg[1], the
> > > > > current running/total processes count.  My only question is if states
> > > > > other than 'O' and 'R' should be considered "running" for this purpose.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > That looks right.  But I don't see that get_process_state will ever
> > > > generate an 'O'.
> > >
> > >
> > > Good point.  get_process_state() returns only R/S/Z, but
> > > format_process_status() has a case for a few other states.  Why?
> >
> >
> > Dunno.  The code has been contributed by Christopher January in 2002
> > and is essentially unchanged since then.  I don't think anybody would
> > be angry with you if you're going to pick it up and dust it off a bit...
>
>
> That's alright, I think I'll leave that alone for now; I have other
> patches waiting in my queue to deal with.
>
> Bottom line: should I remove the case 'O' since get_process_state
> doesn't (yet?) return it, or leave it in as in format_process_status()?


Leave it and check in your patch.  Could you please also add a FIXME
comment to get_process_state, somewhere around the lines which generate
the 'R' flag, to explain that we might want to revist this code to
generate an 'O' flag at one point?

> Then I would like to leave the fifth column for a later time.


Ok.  Go ahead.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


