# Re: [PATCH 3/3] Cygwin: is_console_app(): handle app execution aliases

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-12-15T17:05:21+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aUAxwTZcfZ9qecW2@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aUAxwTZcfZ9qecW2@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-37-17.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/15/16-05-21)

On Dec 15 16:40, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> Hey Corinna,
>
> [Sorry for top-posting]


/*rolling eyes*/

> I take it you mean
> <https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2025q4/014403.html>?


/*rolling eyes again, multiple times*/

Yes, of course, sorry.

> Then
> yes, it looks as if we're trying to fix the same issue, even if I have
> to admit that I wouldn't have begun to have guessed that from the
> commit message in that mail that the bug is about app execution
> aliases (regular symbolic links don't have a problem, I don't think,
> and therefore the message might be considered misleading to a certain
> extent). For that reason, I _much_ prefer the more verbose description
> of the problem that I offered in the email you quoted.
>
> Also, it looks as if that other proposed patch will always add
> overhead, not only when the reparse point needs to be handled in a
> special way. Given that this code path imposes already quite a bit of
> overhead, overhead that delays execution noticeably and makes
> debugging less delightful than I'd like, I would much prefer to do it
> in the way that I proposed, where the extra time penalty is imposed
> _only_ in case the special handling is actually needed.


You may want to discuss this with Takashi.  Simplicity vs. Speed ;)

But, if we take your patch, I'd suggest adding a source code comment
why the extra call to CreateFileW is necessary.  It's not obvious when
scanning the code.

And I just noticed another small hiccup...

> -------- Original Message --------
> > From: Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de>
> >
> > In 0a9ee3ea23 (Allow executing Windows Store's "app execution aliases",
>


$ git show 0a9ee3ea23
fatal: ambiguous argument '0a9ee3ea23': unknown revision or path not in the working tree.
Use '--' to separate paths from revisions, like this:
'git <command> [<revision>...] -- [<file>...]'

Oops?


Thanks,
Corinna


