# Re: [PATCH 3/3] Cygwin: is_console_app(): handle app execution aliases

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-12-15T18:15:10+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f8d06570-7208-755b-e747-e8d7d174b32d@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f8d06570-7208-755b-e747-e8d7d174b32d@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-37-17.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/15/17-15-10)

Hi Corinna,

On Mon, 15 Dec 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Dec 15 16:40, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > Hey Corinna,
> >
> > [Sorry for top-posting]
>
>
> /*rolling eyes*/


I wanted to reply quickly, which precluded me from using a mailer that
allows inlined responses, sorry.

> > Also, it looks as if that other proposed patch will always add
> > overhead, not only when the reparse point needs to be handled in a
> > special way. Given that this code path imposes already quite a bit of
> > overhead, overhead that delays execution noticeably and makes
> > debugging less delightful than I'd like, I would much prefer to do it
> > in the way that I proposed, where the extra time penalty is imposed
> > _only_ in case the special handling is actually needed.
>
>
> You may want to discuss this with Takashi.  Simplicity vs. Speed ;)


With that little rationale, the patch to always follow symlinks does not
exactly look simple to me, but complex and requiring some
head-scratching...

> But, if we take your patch, I'd suggest adding a source code comment
> why the extra call to CreateFileW is necessary.  It's not obvious when
> scanning the code.


Done.

> And I just noticed another small hiccup...
>
> > -------- Original Message --------
> > > From: Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de>
> > >
> > > In 0a9ee3ea23 (Allow executing Windows Store's "app execution aliases",
> >
>
>
> $ git show 0a9ee3ea23
> fatal: ambiguous argument '0a9ee3ea23': unknown revision or path not in the working tree.
> Use '--' to separate paths from revisions, like this:
> 'git <command> [<revision>...] -- [<file>...]'
>
> Oops?


Fixed, sorry. This was a commit from a fork, of course.

Ciao,
Johannes


