# Re: thunking, the next step

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-11-21T11:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20031121110223.GB8815@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20031121110223.GB8815@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/12-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/11/21/11-02-00)

On Fri, Nov 21, 2003 at 07:52:21AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> On Mon, 2003-11-17 at 23:02, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > >  And, structures like
> > > the FindNext* details change in definition when UNICODE is defined. I
> > > was trying to avoid all that complexity, which is significant, by
> > > staying in a thunk approach.
> >
> >
> > Yep, I agree, that's an extra problem.  But it doesn't invalidate the
> > general idea of putting the work into autoload and path_conv.  The
> > FindFile example might be something which justifies the use of wrapper
> > functions for these very cases.
>
>
> Ok. Well for now, I'm going to leave the thunks in place, until / if
> they become nothing more than if (unicode) ...W() else A(). That said,
> all the calls we are thunking require kernel mode transitions, so I
> really don't believe that the thunking will add any overhead on it's
> own: the context switch going into kernel will obliterate the much
> smaller overhead of checking which call we want to make.


I don't think so.  You can't take the kernel into account, really, since
it spends its time either case.

Anyway, *sic* I don't like the thunking.  It's fairly intrusive to the
code.  It adds another complexity level to a lot of functions which seems
pretty unnecessary.  It also adds a lot of decisions which are made on
runtime over and over again, even though actually it would be sufficient
from a logical level to make this decision once.  Or at least only once
per Win32 function call.  

Btw., what does "thunk" mean literally?  While I know its meaning in the
software context, I can't find a simple translation.  I looked up three
dictionaries to no avail.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


