# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Kai Tietz <ktietz70@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-10-18T15:58:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CAEwic4ZH91sdRbgZ=RL4Nbp-2jdNXe5vMFA4K9UyUo3DzdcBMg@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAEwic4ZH91sdRbgZ=RL4Nbp-2jdNXe5vMFA4K9UyUo3DzdcBMg@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/18/15-58-00)

Hi Corinna,

2012/10/18 Corinna Vinschen:
> Hi Yaakov,
>
> On Oct 18 02:33, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > On Wed, 2012-10-17 at 15:32 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > But, anyway, nevermind.  This shouldn't be a requirement for getting
> > > these changes checked in.  I'm more concerned with just nuking the
> > > now-unneeded mingw script.
> >
> >
> > Draft patch attached, based partially on Kai's.  Yes, it needs a
> > ChangeLog entry, but it also needs more testing first.
> >
> > On Cygwin, you need either mingw-gcc-g++ and mingw-zlib, or
> > mingw64-i686-gcc-g++ with Ports' mingw64-i686-zlib, available here:
>
>
> Any problem to move mingw64-i686-zlib into the distro?


Hmm, wouldn't assume so.  I can give JonY a ping for that.  I assume
he would provide such a package.  Shall I ask him?

> > ftp://ftp.cygwinports.org/pub/cygwinports/release-2/CrossDevel/mingw64-i686-zlib/
> >
> > On Fedora, you need my cygwin-gcc-c++ plus mingw32-gcc-c++ and
> > mingw32-zlib-static.  Unfortunately F17's mingw32-headers isn't
> > (aren't?) new enough, so two files in winsup/utils wouldn't compile
>
>
> Indeed, unfortunately.  The Fedora maintainer cut the latest version
> right before I started to apply my changes to mingw64.
>
> Kai, do you have a chance to bump the Fedora maintainer?  An update
> to the latest state would help our cause a lot.


I am about to give the Fedora-maintainer a ping about this.

> > until I manually upgraded to
> > mingw32-headers-2.0.999-0.13.trunk.20121016.fc19.noarch.rpm from
> > rawhide.  F16 (which uses the mingw.org toolchain) should also be okay.
> >
> > Apply the patch, rm -r winsup/mingw/ winsup/w32api/ winsup/utils/mingw,
> > run autoconf in winsup/utils, then configure and build.  Tested so far
> > with CVS HEAD on Cygwin and Fedora 17 (with the aforementioned issue)
> > with our new w32api and the i686-w64-mingw32 toolchain; I have NOT yet
> > tested the resulting cygwin1.dll.
>
>
> Just FYI, there's a branch in sourceware called cygwin-64bit-branch.
> It contains all of Cygwin but omits the winsup/mingw and winsup/utils
> dir already.
>
> The idea of the branch is to collect all changes required to make Cygwin
> 64 bit work, while keeping the trunk intact for normal releases for the
> time being.  Since we would like to keep Cygwin working on 32 bit,
> cygwin-64bit-branch is supposed to make sure that Cygwin still builds on
> 32 bit as well.
>
> I had a brief look into the patch but didn't test it yet.  It looks good,
> but it misses out on one important thing:  In contrast to Kai's patch, it
> does not test for the target CPU, so these patches don't allow to build
> with --target=x86_64-pc-cygwin.


```
 Hmm, where do I check --target option?  I use host-triplet for
 detecting cpu's architecture name. See in utils/configure.in file.

```

Regards,
Kai


