# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Yaakov (Cygwin/X) <yselkowitz@users.sourceforge.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2012-10-18T17:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1350580828.3492.73.camel@YAAKOV04](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1350580828.3492.73.camel@YAAKOV04) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/18/17-20-00)

On Thu, 2012-10-18 at 10:34 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Any problem to move mingw64-i686-zlib into the distro?


None; should I also move the other setup.exe prerequisites for
i686-w64-mingw32?  Would you also like x86_64 versions of any of those?

> The idea of the branch is to collect all changes required to make Cygwin
> 64 bit work, while keeping the trunk intact for normal releases for the
> time being.  Since we would like to keep Cygwin working on 32 bit,
> cygwin-64bit-branch is supposed to make sure that Cygwin still builds on
> 32 bit as well.


This particular change doesn't really have to do with 32-vs-64-bit, but
with switching from mingw.org's w32api/runtime to mingw-w64's.
(Obviously, I'm testing this with i686.)  So, once thoroughly tested, it
could go straight into HEAD.

> I had a brief look into the patch but didn't test it yet.  It looks good,
> but it misses out on one important thing:  In contrast to Kai's patch, it
> does not test for the target CPU, so these patches don't allow to build
> with --target=x86_64-pc-cygwin.


That's easy enough to fix.

> > -      FLAGS_FOR_TARGET=$FLAGS_FOR_TARGET' -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup/cygwin -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup/w32api/lib -isystem $$s/winsup/include -isystem $$s/winsup/cygwin/include -isystem $$s/winsup/w32api/include'
> > +      FLAGS_FOR_TARGET=$FLAGS_FOR_TARGET' -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup/cygwin -isystem $$s/winsup/include -isystem $$s/winsup/cygwin/include'
>
>
> This change reminds me.  Why on earth do we have a
> -L$$r/$(TARGET_SUBDIR)/winsup in there?  How old is that?  We don't
> have any libs in the winsup dir anyway, so we should remove that,
> isn't it?


Same goes for -isystem $$s/winsup/include.

Revised patch attached.


Yaakov



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-external-mingw.patch](cygwin-external-mingw.patch) (text)
