# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: exceptions: Fix AArch64 non-incyg signal handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Máte Dimand <mate.dimand@arm.com> |
| **To** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2026-06-18T17:05:06+03:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b0cc315f-fd63-417c-9a2c-e7ea871847fd@arm.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b0cc315f-fd63-417c-9a2c-e7ea871847fd@arm.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/08-02-26.thread.md#:~:text=2026/06/18/14-05-06)

Thank you for the response!

On 6/17/2026 1:07 PM, Jon Turney wrote:
> It seems like it should be possible to construct a relatively simple 
> test to demonstrate this.  Could you suggest what that test might look 
> like? 


I have attached the source code for a reproducer. It reproduces the 
issue by forking the process and having the child process signal the 
parent process while the parent process is in a leaf function (which 
doesn't preserve the link register). The expected behavior is both begin 
and end getting printed successfully and the process ending gracefully. 
However, without the patch, only begin gets printed, the parent process 
crashes inside the test function, and the child process will fail to 
send SIGUSR1 to the dead parent process.

Unfortunately, to my knowledge, the current upstream version of AArch64 
Cygwin GCC is not yet suitable for compiling it.

> Hmmm... it seems like this is functionally incremental to a patch 
> which hasn't been applied yet, but I can't work out which one. 

Maybe you were thinking of this patch: 
https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2026q1/014641.html but as 
far as I can tell it has already been applied, for example this is where 
the X30/LR register gets set in sigdelayed: 
https://cygwin.com/cgit/newlib-cygwin/tree/winsup/cygwin/scripts/gendef#n558. 

> I spent about an hour trying to salvage this, without success. Could I 
> possibly trouble you to resend it as an attachment?

I'm sorry for giving you trouble with the formatting of my patch yet 
again, I have attached it in this message.


---

**Attachments:**

- [reproducer.c](reproducer.c) (text)
- [0001-exceptions-Fix-AArch64-non-incyg-signal-handling.patch](0001-exceptions-Fix-AArch64-non-incyg-signal-handling.patch) (text)
