# Re: lseek() fails to seek on /dev/fd0 ('\\.\A:')

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Egor Duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-02-27T05:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [475821030.20010227160430@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/475821030.20010227160430@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/11-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/02/27/05-05-00)

Hi!

Tuesday, 27 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:

CV> On Tue, Feb 27, 2001 at 12:45:39PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> > CV> Did you try that even on raw partitions (\\.\X:)? From the MSDN:
> >
> > CV> "The IOCTL_DISK_GET_DRIVE_GEOMETRY control code retrieves information
> > CV>  about the physical disk's geometry"
> >
> > CV> so I assume it will only work for raw harddisks (\\.\physicaldriveN).
> >
> > Yep,    you're    right.    I    can    work    around    this    with
> > IOCTL_DISK_GET_PARTITION_INFO  ioctl,  but here comes the problem with
> > off_t  and  size_t being long int :(  So we won't be able to work with
> > drives  and  partitions  longer  then  2G  (which  are  very  frequent
> > nowadays). Should we return EINVAL in such cases?
>


CV> I have just checked on Linux kernel 2.2.x. For some reason it returns
CV> the following on partitions and physical drives:

CV> lseek (fd, 0, SEEK_END) = 0 and the file pointer is set to the
CV> beginning(!) of the raw device.

CV> lseek (fd, pos != 0, SEEK_END) = -1 (EINVAL)

CV> So if we want to be Linux compatible we could make our life very easy.

CV> Has somebody a 2.4 kernel to test the behaviour there?

i've just tested it under 2.4.0. it seeks correctly from the end of device
and returns device_size + offset.

 if  return  value > 2G, it returns -1 with EOVERFLOW. I feel EFBIG is
more appropriate here, but it's arguable.

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19
floppy-lseek.diff
floppy-lseek.ChangeLog



---

**Attachments:**

- [floppy-lseek.ChangeLog](floppy-lseek.ChangeLog) (text)
- [floppy-lseek.diff](floppy-lseek.diff) (text)
