# Re: lseek() fails to seek on /dev/fd0 ('\\.\A:')

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-02-27T07:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010227165149.A4647@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010227165149.A4647@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/11-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/02/27/07-52-00)

On Tue, Feb 27, 2001 at 06:17:56PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Tuesday, 27 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:
>
> CV> On Tue, Feb 27, 2001 at 04:04:30PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> > > CV> Has somebody a 2.4 kernel to test the behaviour there?
> > >
> > > i've just tested it under 2.4.0. it seeks correctly from the end of device
> > > and returns device_size + offset.
> > >
> > >  if  return  value > 2G, it returns -1 with EOVERFLOW. I feel EFBIG is
> > > more appropriate here, but it's arguable.
> >
>
>
> CV> Ok, that sounds more reasonable than the 2.2 behaviour. Would you
> CV> mind to change your current patch to work on physical drives
> CV> using IOCTL_DISK_GET_DRIVE_GEOMETRY and on partitions using the
> CV> IOCTL_DISK_GET_PARTITION_INFO call and, hmm, I think you're right,
> CV> to return EFBIG in the above case? That would be nice. I would
> CV> like to see the patch first but I'm pretty sure I will approve it.
>
> i've  already  modified  it,  the  diff  in my previous message is the
> modified  one.  It  determines drive geometry, and fails if it cannot,


Ooops, sorry I missed that there was an attachment to your mail.
The patch looks good. Please check it in. Just one minor nit:

Please change

	set_errno ( EFBIG );

to

	set_errno (EFBIG);

Thanks for that patch, I will check it with my ZIP drive this week.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


