# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: pty: Introduce disable_pcon in environment CYGWIN.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Wolff <towo@towo.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-02-11T07:27:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [c65bd196-07a3-b0c5-6350-88d16f48a810@towo.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c65bd196-07a3-b0c5-6350-88d16f48a810@towo.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/20/02-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2020/02/11/07-27-00)

Am 10.02.2020 um 13:24 schrieb Takashi Yano:
> On Mon, 10 Feb 2020 11:07:10 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb  8 18:13, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > On 22.01.2020 11:06, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jan 21 22:25, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > > - For programs which does not work properly with pseudo console,
> > > > > ```
> > > > >     disable_pcon in environment CYGWIN is introduced. If disable_pcon
> > > > >     is set, pseudo console support is disabled.
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > > Pushed.  I just fixed a missing </para> in the doc text.
> > > >
> > >
> > > Sorry I didn't notice this before. I think rather than having to decide and
> > > unconditionally switch on or off, a better approach would be to
> > > automatically enable pseudo console when forking a non-cygwin program only,
> > > or have that as a third option. (I think I had suggested this before.)
> > > It's good we had pseudo console in unconditionally now for a while, as that
> > > apparently helped identifying a bunch of issues, but targetting it to where
> > > it's really needed would further help to avoid future trouble, including any
> > > performance issues as recently reported.
> > > I'm willing to prepare a patch if desired, as I had implemented that
> > > condition already for my earlier "winpty injection" proposal.
> > > Thomas
> >
> > Interesting idea, but given that all the Pseudo Console code in
> > Cygwin is from Takashi, he should decide how to go forward.
> >
> > Takashi?  What do you think?
>
> I cannot imagine how to realize this right now. Let me consider.
>

See https://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-developers/2018-04/msg00002.html for my 
patch.


