# Re: [Patch] Signal mask handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-03-12T03:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20040311221130.007f5770@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20040311221130.007f5770@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/04-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/03/12/03-12-00)

At 09:37 PM 3/11/2004 -0500, you wrote:
> On Thu, Mar 11, 2004 at 09:04:05PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> > > > BTW I noticed that Posix and Cygwin diverge on sigpause.
> > > >
> > > > Posix:
> > > > int sigpause(int sig);
> > > > The sigpause() function removes sig from the calling process' signal
> > > > mask and suspends the calling process until a signal is received.  The
> > > > sigpause() function restores the process' signal mask to its original
> > > > state before returning.
> > > >
> > > > Cygwin
> > > > sigpause (int signal_mask)
> > > > {
> > > >  return handle_sigsuspend ((sigset_t) signal_mask);
> > > > }
> > >
> > >
> > > Sorry, but I don't see any divergence.  A reading of the above might
> > > seem to indicate that sigpause should return on the receipt of any
> > > signal but I notice that on linux (and one other UNIX that I tested this
> > > on) sigpause only returns on the receipt of a signal that has a handler
> > > associated with it.  This makes sigpause equivalent to sigsuspend,
> > > AFAICT.
> >
> >
> > What I find strange is that usually sig is an integer (1-32), not a mask.
> > Compare the two following lines are from the same Posix page
> > void (*sigset(int sig, void (*disp)(int)))(int);   <= clearly an integer
> > int sigpause(int sig);  <= a mask???
>
>
> It's a mask, yes.  I guess the only difference is that sigset_t is an
> unsigned long on cygwin rather than an int.


After some googling, it looks like BSD and System V differ
http://world.std.com/~jimf/papers/signals/signals.html
"Note that sigpause() conflicts with the BSD function of the same name"

Posix knows the difference between an "int" and a "sigset_t". For some
reason it's not following BSD.
I point to this as a curiosity, I don't care about the outcome.

Pierre


