# Re: errno.h: ESTRPIPE

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-03-14T09:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090314092559.GG9322@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090314092559.GG9322@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/05-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/03/14/09-26-00)

On Mar 13 17:47, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Mar 13, 2009 at 09:59:49PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar 13 10:50, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > Defining a unique value means that, if we do decide at some point to
> > > add functionality which utilizes that errno there will be no need to
> > > recompile the application.
> >
> >
> > That's quite a good argument.  If you both think it's a good idea to
> > define this new errno, I'm fine with it, too.
>
>
> I was wondering if we should add a conditionalized "#include
> <cygwin/errno.h>" to newlib's errno.h.  Then we could add things without
> littering the file with #ifdef CYGWIN's.


Actually I was going to propose the same idea yesterday when I wrote my
reply.  But then it occured to me that, *if* we add our own errno.h, we
would have to make sure that we start with our own errnos at a value way
above EOWNERDEAD so that we don't get an errno clash when new errnos are
added to newlib.  But in this case we raise the size of _sys_errlist
with empty slots for no good reason.  And the worst case, newlib adds an
errno with another value than what's defined in cygwin/errno.h.

So, if we add this errno, just stick it to newlib's sys/errno.h as in
Yaakovs original patch.

If that's ok with you I'll apply Yaakov's patch on Monday.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


