# Re: [Patch] Loading cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-06-05T03:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.61.0506042302550.15703@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.61.0506042302550.15703@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/22-58-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/06/05/03-09-00)

On Sat, 4 Jun 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Sat, Jun 04, 2005 at 05:53:56PM -0700, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > On 6/3/05, Max Kaehn wrote:
> > > This patch contains the changes to make it possible to dynamically load
> > > cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC applications.  The changes to dcrt0.cc
> > > are minimal and only affect cygwin_dll_init().  I've also added a MinGW
> > > test program to testsuite and a FAQ so people will be able to locate
> > > the test program easily.
> >
> >
> > Assuming the code patches are fine, instead of a new section could we
> > just add your FAQ hint to "How do I link against `cygwin1.dll' with
> > Visual Studio?" <http://cygwin.com/faq/faq_toc.html#TOC102> The title
> > could be changed to something like "How do I use `cygwin1.dll' with
> > MinGW or Visual Studio?"
> >
> > I'm a little torn since I'm not sure this is actually frequently asked
> > but it's certainly good to have the info.  Ideally I can put it in the
> > User's Guide.
>
>
> Oops.  I just applied the patch to the doc area.  This is entirely your call.
> I should have waited for your approval.
>
> If you want to me to revert the patch, please let me know.  Otherwise, please
> just massage it as you see fit.
>
> FWIW, I think this does qualify as both a FAQ and a user's guide addition.


And is much appreciated.  This is very useful functionality, and somebody
had to do it, so Max did.  Thanks.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"The Sun will pass between the Earth and the Moon tonight for a total
Lunar eclipse..." -- WCBS Radio Newsbrief, Oct 27 2004, 12:01 pm EDT


