# Re: [Patch] Loading cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-06-05T03:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050605031038.GA7230@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050605031038.GA7230@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/22-58-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/06/05/03-10-00)

On Sat, Jun 04, 2005 at 11:09:10PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Sat, 4 Jun 2005, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Sat, Jun 04, 2005 at 05:53:56PM -0700, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > > On 6/3/05, Max Kaehn wrote:
> > > > This patch contains the changes to make it possible to dynamically load
> > > > cygwin1.dll from MinGW and MSVC applications.  The changes to dcrt0.cc
> > > > are minimal and only affect cygwin_dll_init().  I've also added a MinGW
> > > > test program to testsuite and a FAQ so people will be able to locate
> > > > the test program easily.
> > >
> > >
> > > Assuming the code patches are fine, instead of a new section could we
> > > just add your FAQ hint to "How do I link against `cygwin1.dll' with
> > > Visual Studio?" <http://cygwin.com/faq/faq_toc.html#TOC102> The title
> > > could be changed to something like "How do I use `cygwin1.dll' with
> > > MinGW or Visual Studio?"
> > >
> > > I'm a little torn since I'm not sure this is actually frequently asked
> > > but it's certainly good to have the info.  Ideally I can put it in the
> > > User's Guide.
> >
> >
> > Oops.  I just applied the patch to the doc area.  This is entirely your call.
> > I should have waited for your approval.
> >
> > If you want to me to revert the patch, please let me know.  Otherwise, please
> > just massage it as you see fit.
> >
> > FWIW, I think this does qualify as both a FAQ and a user's guide addition.
>
>
> And is much appreciated.  This is very useful functionality, and somebody
> had to do it, so Max did.  Thanks.


Yep.  There's another gold star coming as soon as everything is in.

cgf


