# Re: Website Suggestions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | John Haugabook <johnhaugabook@gmail.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-06-07T21:41:42+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [d46e5c65-144e-4acb-b1e2-6040d4b5231c@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d46e5c65-144e-4acb-b1e2-6040d4b5231c@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/01-50-37.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/07/20-41-42)

On 06/06/2025 02:50, John Haugabook wrote:
> Hello,
>
> I made a few small edits to the website, and included the patch as an
> attachment. Below are the changes:


Thanks very much for looking at this.  Our website certainly needs some 
love!

>   - Changed links to template elements to absolute, using "/" before the page.


OK. But why?

I know there's a random mix of absolute and relative paths, but why 
change them all to absolute?

(Note that the whole website is also exposed at 
https://sourceware.org/cygwin/, but doesn't work properly because of 
absolute paths...)

>   - Included template elements in nested pages.
>   - Made an edit to "Install.html".


-<code>-P package1,package2,...</code> options.
+<code>-P &lt;package1&gt; -P &lt;package2&gt;,...</code> options.

Is this reflecting that the first syntax doesn't work for you? I think 
it's supposed to, so that would be a bug in setup if it doesn't.

I'm not sure that assuming the reader knows that "enclosed in angle 
brackets means a metasyntactic variable" is a good idea.

Perhaps it's enough to italicize these to indicate they are replaceable?

>   - In style.css edited elements for better UX, and edited comment
> markers for consistency, ending at col 78 for comments marking style
> section.


I applied the change to align the comment ends, because that's just 
terrible currently. :(

Not sure what to do about consistency in placing the brace after the 
selector and indentation of the declarations.

There's also a script.js added to navbar.html which does something, but 
I can't tell what at a glance, so that will have to wait until I have 
more time to look at it...

> I wasn’t sure where website suggestions should be sent — this list
> seemed most appropriate, given its name. If there’s a better place or
> process to submit patches like this, please feel free to redirect me.


This is totally the appropriate place to send patches.

> Totally understand if the changes are rejected or revised. Thank you
> for maintaining the project and reviewing contributions.


Thanks again.

In future, if possible, please try to submit a set of patches each 
covering a separate change which can be understood in isolation, it 
makes it a lot easier to review (and lets us immediately apply 
uncontroversial changes while discussing the other parts).



