# Re: [PATCH v2] winsup/doc/posix.xml: add note for getrlimit, setrlimit, xrefs to notes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-02-16T09:51:08-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [39425336-2abc-793e-f2fd-ac6ade12d55c@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/39425336-2abc-793e-f2fd-ac6ade12d55c@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/22-35-39.thread.md#:~:text=2021/02/16/16-51-08)

On 2021-02-16 04:30, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Feb 15 15:35, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > change notes to see "Implementation Notes" to xref to std-notes;
> > add xref to std-notes to getrlimit, setrlimit;
> > add note to document limitations of getrlimit, setrlimit resources support
> > ---
> > ```
> >   winsup/doc/posix.xml | 101 ++++++++++++++++++++++++-------------------
> >   1 file changed, 57 insertions(+), 44 deletions(-)
> > ```
> >
>
>
> Pushed with a change:
>    <xref linkend="std-notes">(see chapter "Implementation Notes")</xref>
> -->
>    (see <xref linkend="std-notes">chapter "Implementation Notes"</xref>)
> The reason is how xref is handled when creating html docs.  The result
> of an xref is always 'the section called "..."'.  With the above change,
> the text works (albeit differently) in html and info file.


Cheers, thanks, I'll bear that in mind in future, and read the generated output 
more carefully.

I'm not seeing .info generated with Note:... links, is that okay?

Also ...api.pdf is not being regenerated, so what have I lost or am missing?

I have the following doc tools (and others):

$ apt l asciidoc dblatex poppler\$ xmlto
asciidoc 8.6.9-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
dblatex 0.3.10-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
poppler 21.01.0-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
xmlto 0.0.28-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]

What else is needed?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


