# Re: [PATCH v2] winsup/doc/posix.xml: add note for getrlimit, setrlimit, xrefs to notes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-02-16T10:00:44-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ac3a2eb5-2d56-c1ba-cd53-adf8adc41b07@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ac3a2eb5-2d56-c1ba-cd53-adf8adc41b07@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/22-35-39.thread.md#:~:text=2021/02/16/17-00-44)

On 2021-02-16 09:51, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2021-02-16 04:30, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On Feb 15 15:35, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > change notes to see "Implementation Notes" to xref to std-notes;
> > > add xref to std-notes to getrlimit, setrlimit;
> > > add note to document limitations of getrlimit, setrlimit resources support
> > > ---
> > >   winsup/doc/posix.xml | 101 ++++++++++++++++++++++++-------------------
> > >   1 file changed, 57 insertions(+), 44 deletions(-)
> >
> >
> > Pushed with a change:
> >    <xref linkend="std-notes">(see chapter "Implementation Notes")</xref>
> > -->
> >    (see <xref linkend="std-notes">chapter "Implementation Notes"</xref>)
> > The reason is how xref is handled when creating html docs.  The result
> > of an xref is always 'the section called "..."'.  With the above change,
> > the text works (albeit differently) in html and info file.
>
>
> Cheers, thanks, I'll bear that in mind in future, and read the generated output 
> more carefully.
>
> I'm not seeing .info generated with Note:... links, is that okay?
>
> Also ...api.pdf is no longer being regenerated, so what have I lost or am missing?
>
> I have the following doc tools (and others):
>
> $ apt l asciidoc dblatex poppler\$ xmlto
> asciidoc 8.6.9-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> dblatex 0.3.10-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
> poppler 21.01.0-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> xmlto 0.0.28-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]


Also as documented plus other dependencies:

$ apt l build-docbook-catalog docbook-sgml45 docbook-utils docbook-xml45 \
	docbook-xsl docbook2X
build-docbook-catalog 1.5-2 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
docbook-sgml45 4.5-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
docbook-utils 0.6.14-2 x86_64 [installed, manual]
docbook-xml45 4.5-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
docbook-xsl 1.77.1-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
docbook2X 0.8.8-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]

> What else is needed?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


