# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Trigger redraw screen if ESC[?3h or ESC[?3l is sent.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-11-14T09:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20191114094912.GT3372@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20191114094912.GT3372@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/10-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/11/14/09-49-00)

On Nov 14 10:35, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Takashi,
>
> On Nov 13 19:49, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > - Pseudo console clears console screen buffer if ESC[?3h or ESC[?3l
> >   is sent. However, xterm/vt100 does not clear screen. This cause
>


Btw., this is not pseudo console behaviour per se, but the standard
behaviour of the new Windows console with VT ESC sequences turned on.
You can try this in a normal console under Cygwin.  It will clear the
screen after ESC[?3h, but it won't actually resize the console to switch
into 132 column mode.

This probably won't matter much for the problem at hand, I'm just
writing this so this is mentioned somewhere searchable.


Corinna


>
> This is only correct if xterm hasn't been started with the c132 widget
> resource set to 'true'.  This resource specifies whether the ESC[?3h
> and ESC[?3l ESC sequences are honored or not.  The default is 'false'.
>
> However, if you specify the c132 resource, or if you start xterm
> with the commandline option -132, it will resize when these sequences
> are sent.  And here's the joke: The resize also clears the screen
> in xterm.
>
> My question now is, does this change anything in terms of the below
> code, or is it still valid as is?
>
>
> Thanks,
> Corinna
> [...]


-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
