# Re: [PATCH] DocBook XML toolchain modernization

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-05-01T00:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130501003154.GB3781@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130501003154.GB3781@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../04/30/00-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/05/01/00-31-00)

On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 03:53:58PM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> On 4/30/2013 14:27, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Apr 30, 2013 at 02:09:52PM -0600, Warren Young wrote:
> > >   Embedding <html> within <html> is eeevil.
> >
> >
> > faq.html is a pretty simple file and it seems to work.  Are there any
> > non-religious advantages to doing this?
>
>
> Conceivably browsers could stop tolerating it.


Yeah, that's what I thought you'd say.  I don't think it's worth the
effort and expense of duplicating Cygwin's CSS elsewhere but maybe
there's a clever way to avoid the html nesting which wouldn't require
that.

> > > - Any comments about the other items in my FUTURE WORK section?
> > > Unconditional green light, or do you want to approve them one by one?
> >
> >
> > You have the right to change anything in the doc directory.  Anything
> > outside of that will require approval.
>
>
> The final removal of doctool requires replacing the DOCTOOL/SGML 
> comments in winsup/cygwin/{path,pinfo}.cc with Doxygen comments, and 
> folding most of the contents of winsup/cygwin/*.sgml into Doxygen 
> comments within the relevant source files.


I'd rather just move this out of the code entirely.  The user visible
interfaces aren't going to change and we haven't made a habit of
adding new DOCTOOL tags.  I don't know who first thought that adding
these was a good idea (it may predate my time on the project even
though CVS insists that I added it with version 1.1) but, if Corinna
agrees when she gets back, I'd like to just get rid of these.

cgf


