# [PATCH 1/1] Cygwin: Fix SEH and signal handling on AArch64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Evgeny Karpov <evgeny.karpov@arm.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-04-09T13:44:23+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [adeRF5tmktaFUxA0@arm.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/adeRF5tmktaFUxA0@arm.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-44-23.thread.md#:~:text=2026/04/09/11-44-23)

On Wed, Apr 01, 2026, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Apr  1 17:41, Evgeny Karpov wrote:
> > On Tue, Mar 31, 2026, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Mar 31 18:49, Evgeny Karpov wrote:
> > > > On Mon, Mar 30, 2026, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Mar 27 12:43, Igor Podgainoi wrote:
> > > > > > This patch adds the SEH_CODE macro (defined in exception.h), allowing
> > > > > > a single EXCEPTION_HANDLER_DATA metadata definition to be used on both
> > > > > > AArch64 and x86_64 architectures.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > It also fixes an issue related to stack replacement in _dll_crt0 that
> > > > > > impacts SEH and signal handling, where due to an epilogue optimization
> > > > > > on AArch64 the epilogue might appear before _main_tls->call. However,
> > > > > > after the stack replacement this optimization becomes broken.
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Can you explain why this problem only affects aarch64 and not x86_64
> > > > > as well?
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > It looks like the x86_64 epilogue is also optimized and appears before
> > > > _main_tls->call.
> > > > However, the x86_64 epilogue uses the shadow stack which was allocated after
> > > > the stack replacement. It means if _dll_crt0 is modified, it might bring more
> > > > operations for unwinding, and that might access the stack outside of the shadow
> > > > space. It will lead to the same issue as on AArch64. Potentially, the compiler
> > > > barrier should be enabled also on x86_64. And the shadow space concept does not
> > > > apply to AArch64.
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks for the explanation, I think I see what you mean.  Right now we
> > > subtract 16 bytes from the stacklimit as startaddress for the new stack,
> > > see https://sourceware.org/cgit/newlib-cygwin/tree/winsup/cygwin/create_posix_thread.cc#n270
> >
> >
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > The stack is also subtracted here
> > https://sourceware.org/cgit/newlib-cygwin/tree/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc#n1043
> >
> > > So... since we're setting up an entirely new stack anyway, would it
> > > make sense to subtract, say, 256 bytes from the stack for both targets
> > > instead of just the 16 bytes?  That way there should always be enough
> > > space for the epilogue, isn't it?
> >
> >
> >
> > It looks like 256 bytes will not solve the issue.
> > It seems that after the stack replacement, it is not expected to return from _main_tls->call.
> > Otherwise, with the broken stack after the replacement, it might crash.
> >
> > The epilogue unwinds the prologue, and the stack might be significantly moved in the prologue.
> > For instance, by allocating memory on stack.
> > Event slight shifts on stack can impact the epilogue optimization when it appears before
> > _main_tls->call.
> > This is why it is better to prevent the epilogue optimization in _dll_crt0 by a compiler
> > barrier after the stack replacement.
> >
> > If the statement for no return is correct, another way to describe it is that the epilogue
> > should never be called in _dll_crt0 after the stack replacement.
>
>
> We can return to this point if user_data->main is NULL, but that should
> only happen if the cygwin DLL is loaded dynamically.  This in turn
> disables creating the new stack.


Thanks for the clarification.

> So, shall we just drop the #if __aarch64__ and always instantiate the
> barrier?
>
> Do you want to provide a patch for that?


Yes, it looks like it makes sense. The patch will be prepared.

> Oh, btw., we have a __mem_barrier definition in cygtls.h. Shouldn't
> we use that in _dll_crt0 as well?


The __mem_barrier will be reused if it is suitable.

Regards,
Evgeny

IMPORTANT NOTICE: The contents of this email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately and do not disclose the contents to any other person, use it for any purpose, or store or copy the information in any medium. Thank you.


