# [PATCH v3] Cygwin: SEH: Fix crash and handle second unwind phase on AArch64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Evgeny Karpov <evgeny.karpov@arm.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-04-09T14:02:16+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [adeVSHfhTSJYMjpj@arm.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/adeVSHfhTSJYMjpj@arm.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-02-16.thread.md#:~:text=2026/04/09/12-02-16)

On Tue, Apr 07, 2026, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Igor,
>
> On Apr  7 17:24, Igor Podgainoi wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > On Mar 31 15:51, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Do we actually *need* the .seh_code on x86_64, or would it be sufficient
> > > to change this to .text for both targets?
> >
> >
> > No, as the SEH metadata is defined in the .text section just like the
> > preceding code, there should be no functional difference between them
> > on x86_64. As far as I can tell, this is largely a matter of style -
> > for example, LLVM does not appear to reference .seh_code anywhere in
> > its codebase.
> >
> > The latest proposed AArch64 SEH implementation in binutils does not
> > support the .seh_code directive at this stage.
> >
> > As for the original reason for the introduction of this directive,
> > the binutils commit 3c6256d29e2c528880a3cf8df43adf32c7780de5 from
> > 2014-03-25 by Nick Clifton <nickc@redhat.com> explicitly states:
> > > This is helpful because the code section may not be .text.
> >
> >
> > So it seems to have been initially used for convenience.
>
>
> Thanks! Shall we just drop the SEH_CODE macro then, or should we 
> keep it as is?  What do you think?


After some thinking on this topic, perhaps it makes sense to
simplify portability by supporting .seh_code on AArch64.

The binutils-seh-v7 patch series
https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2026-March/148657.html
will be extended and .seh_code will be added to binutils-seh-v8.

Regards,
Evgeny


