# Re: [PATCH v3] Cygwin: SEH: Fix crash and handle second unwind phase on AArch64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Evgeny Karpov <evgeny.karpov@arm.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-04-09T16:54:50+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ade9ulHPRvekUycV@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ade9ulHPRvekUycV@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/31/12-11-52.thread.md#:~:text=2026/04/09/14-54-50)

Hi Evgeny,

On Apr  9 14:02, Evgeny Karpov wrote:
> On Tue, Apr 07, 2026, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Igor,
> >
> > On Apr  7 17:24, Igor Podgainoi wrote:
> > > Hi Corinna,
> > >
> > > On Mar 31 15:51, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Do we actually *need* the .seh_code on x86_64, or would it be sufficient
> > > > to change this to .text for both targets?
> > >
> > >
> > > No, as the SEH metadata is defined in the .text section just like the
> > > preceding code, there should be no functional difference between them
> > > on x86_64. As far as I can tell, this is largely a matter of style -
> > > for example, LLVM does not appear to reference .seh_code anywhere in
> > > its codebase.
> > >
> > > The latest proposed AArch64 SEH implementation in binutils does not
> > > support the .seh_code directive at this stage.
> > >
> > > As for the original reason for the introduction of this directive,
> > > the binutils commit 3c6256d29e2c528880a3cf8df43adf32c7780de5 from
> > > 2014-03-25 by Nick Clifton <nickc@redhat.com> explicitly states:
> > > > This is helpful because the code section may not be .text.
> > >
> > >
> > > So it seems to have been initially used for convenience.
> >
> >
> > Thanks! Shall we just drop the SEH_CODE macro then, or should we 
> > keep it as is?  What do you think?
>
>
> After some thinking on this topic, perhaps it makes sense to
> simplify portability by supporting .seh_code on AArch64.
>
> The binutils-seh-v7 patch series
> https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2026-March/148657.html
> will be extended and .seh_code will be added to binutils-seh-v8.


That sounds great.  For the time being, I'll push your patch as is,
so you can just provide a followup patch reusing .seh_code for
aarch64 as well, as soon as we can provide a new binutils version.


Thanks!
Corinna


