# RE: FW: fnmatch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'Corinna Vinschen' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-17T08:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A4A@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A4A@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/17/08-17-00)

Oops.  Chuck caught a licensing problem with the openbsd version of
strptime...

Bad news.  The stuff you took from OpenBSD is licensed under the BSD 
w/advertising clause.  And, since it is owned by Klaus Klein and/or "The 
NetBSD Foundation" it does NOT fall under the blanket changeover (from 
w/advert clause to NO advert clause) issued by the UCalBerkeley folks.

Darn.  I checked FreeBSD and I think it has similar issues.  If someone
would look at the following URLs and verify that the copyright on the
freebsd/netbsd stuff is bad as well, I'd appreciate it.

FreeBSD:
http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/cvsweb.cgi/src/lib/libc/stdtime/strptime.c?rev=1.
17.2.2&content-type=text/x-cvsweb-markup

NetBSD:
http://cvsweb.netbsd.org/bsdweb.cgi/basesrc/lib/libc/time/strptime.c?rev=1.2
2&content-type=text/x-cvsweb-markup

Hmm...   What about this:
http://ftp.uninett.no/pub/OpenBSD/src/kerberosIV/src/lib/roken/strptime.c
Seems to be clear of any advert clause.

Mark

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Mark Bradshaw 
> Sent: Thursday, January 17, 2002 8:21 AM
> To: 'Corinna Vinschen'
> Subject: RE: FW: fnmatch
>
>
> Yes.  I'll try to get to that today.
>
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: Corinna Vinschen [mailto:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com] 
> > Sent: Thursday, January 17, 2002 5:47 AM
> > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > Subject: Re: FW: fnmatch
> >
> >
> > On Wed, Jan 16, 2002 at 09:58:25PM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > > All right.  With blessings all around I'll do so.
> >
> >
> > So, if I understood correctly, you're going to contribute 
>
> strptime().
> >
> > I've just added fnmatch() from OpenBSD to Cygwin.  The only 
> > change needed was adding a
> >
> >   #include "winsup.h"
> >
> > at the beginning to correctly use symbols from <ctype.h>.
> >
> > Corinna
> >
> > -- 
> > Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails 
> > regarding Cygwin to
> > Cygwin Developer                                
> > mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> > Red Hat, Inc.
> >
>
>



