# RE: FW: fnmatch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'Corinna Vinschen' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-17T08:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A4E@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A4E@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/17/08-50-00)

Here's the full text of what Chuck sent me.  Maybe it'll help:

"Bad news.  The stuff you took from OpenBSD is licensed under the BSD 
w/advertising clause.  And, since it is owned by Klaus Klein and/or "The 
NetBSD Foundation" it does NOT fall under the blanket changeover (from 
w/advert clause to NO advert clause) issued by the UCalBerkeley folks.

Since the BSD+advert license is incompatible with the GPL, you CANNOT 
legally mix the two -- you can't even link a BSD+advert library with a 
GPL executable.  You can't link a BSD+advert .o with a GPL .o.  And you 
*definitely* can't mix BSD+advert code with GPL code in the same .c file."

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Corinna Vinschen [mailto:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com]
> Sent: Thursday, January 17, 2002 11:49 AM
> To: 'Corinna Vinschen'
> Subject: Re: FW: fnmatch
>
>
> On Thu, Jan 17, 2002 at 11:16:02AM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > Oops.  Chuck caught a licensing problem with the openbsd version of
> > strptime...
> >
> > Bad news.  The stuff you took from OpenBSD is licensed 
>
> under the BSD 
> > w/advertising clause.  And, since it is owned by Klaus 
>
> Klein and/or "The 
> > NetBSD Foundation" it does NOT fall under the blanket 
>
> changeover (from 
> > w/advert clause to NO advert clause) issued by the 
>
> UCalBerkeley folks.
>
> I (still) don't exactly understand the implications of that clause.
> And the fnmatch.c code is copyrighted by UCB...
>
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails 
> regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                
> mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.
>



