# Re: Cleaning up for NULL handles

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-09-21T20:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20020921231219.00833600@h00207811519c.ne.client2.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20020921231219.00833600@h00207811519c.ne.client2.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/16-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/21/20-21-00)

At 09:58 PM 9/21/2002 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> So, although the fact that CreateFile will return INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE
> on error is documented, I think we can safely assume that CreateFile
> will never return a NULL handle either.


Fair enough. I would still recommend to apply the patch because it 
guarantees that invalid io_handles have the same value (0 or -1, depending
on handlers) in a parent and a dup'ed child, avoiding a source of bugs.
It doesn't add any new lines, only deleting two useless ones.

The matter of locks with negative lengths was left unresolved, around
line 475 in fhandler_disk_file.cc
According to

http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007908799/xsh/fcntl.html

"If l_len is positive, the area affected starts at l_start and ends at 
l_start + l_len-1. If l_len is negative, the area affected starts at 
l_start + l_len and ends at l_start-1. Locks may start and extend beyond 
the current end of a file, but must not be negative relative to the 
beginning of the file. A lock will be set to extend to the largest 
possible value of the file offset for that file by setting l_len to 0."

So there should be a += in the third line below.
```
  if (fl->l_len < 0)
    {
      win32_start -= fl->l_len;
      win32_len = -fl->l_len;
    } 
```

In addition the sentence about not being negative relative to the beginning
of a file implies (please verify this) that the condition win32_start < 0
below should always result in EINVAL. There is no need to subtract the negative
of a negative number to try to fix things up :)
```
  if (win32_start < 0)
    {
      /* watch the signs! */
      win32_len -= -win32_start;
      if (win32_len <= 0)
	{
	  /* Failure ! */
	  set_errno (EINVAL);
	  return -1;
	}
      win32_start = 0;
    }
```

If you agree I will send a patch. You may also decide that it's faster 
overall for you to edit the file directly.

Pierre


