# Re: Base readv/writev patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-30T08:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020830154922.GB2845@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020830154922.GB2845@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/11-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/30/08-49-00)

On Fri, Aug 30, 2002 at 11:12:32AM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Fri, Aug 30, 2002 at 10:51:27AM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Fri, Aug 30, 2002 at 03:11:28PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Thu, Aug 29, 2002 at 01:06:14AM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> > > > Attached is the base part of the readv/writev patch I sent in
> > > > yesterday, i.e. just the generic syscall.cc and fhandler_base
> > > > parts, w/o any of the socket changes.  Otherwise unchanged from
> > > > before except for the expunging of those darn new-fangled C++ cast
> > > > woojits :-)
> > >
> > >
> > > I had another look into this patch and it looks good, IMHO.
> > > But I think Chris should give the final go here.  I'm going
> > > to work under that cygwin dll for now.
> >
> >
> > It's ok with me.  Feel free to check it in, Conrad.
>
>
> Wait a minute.  I was thinking of some other patch.  I have to review
> this one more closely.


I'll be checking this patch in.  I changed a couple of stylistic things
for consistency with the rest of the code.

Just as a hint, I really don't like this style of if test:

  if (!(foo == bar && blah != 0))

Maybe it's just me, but that means that I have to scan left to right and
then back to left again.  I think it is easier to read the following:

  if (foo != bar || blah == 0)

There was code in _read which was liked this which you changed to the
other method.  I changed it back and also made the check_iovec_*
use the same method.

There does seem to be an issue with zero byte reads, though.  IIRC, you
are supposed to be able to do this:

```
  errno = 2;
  read (0, 0, 0)
  assert (errno == 2)

```

i.e., a zero byte read does not check the buffer arguments.

I modified check_iovec_for_* to do this, but I don't know if this is
consistent with SUSv3.  It seems to be consistent with linux, at least.

I've checked this patch in.

cgf


