# Re: setuid on Win95 and etc_changed, passwd & group.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-15T14:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3E2570BD.2582F293@ieee.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3E2570BD.2582F293@ieee.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/15/14-30-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:

> > During testing I noticed another issue. If etc_changed is initialized
> > in a parent and /etc/passwd is changed between the moments where a
> > child is forked and where etc_changed is first called in the child,
> > etc_changed unexpectedly returns false in the child (WinME).
> > Not sure how to fix that, short of always rereading the files in
> > the child (when/if actually accessed).  That would be an OK solution if
> > we hadn't just copied the data from the parent.  Would it be possible
> > to store passwd and group in some other heap (from Windows?) that
> > doesn't get copied?  If that was done, then the etc_changed handle
> > could be opened as needed instead of being inherited.
>
>
> It may be worse than what you say.  It's possible that there is a huge
> race here where the parent and child compete for the privilege of each
> being able to figure out when /etc changed.  I think that if the
> parent figures out that etc changed, the child will not notice and
> vice versa.  This is regardless of whether the process is in the
> middle of forking or not.
>
> So, yes, you can easily put this in some other structure.  Just
> move it out of cygheap entirely and use a global variable that
> is marked NO_COPY.  Don't do the DuplicateHandle step to mark the
> file as inheritable.  Then parent and child should both be able
> to figure out when etc changes.


Yes, this is what I will do.
The passwd state and the non-inheritable etc_handle will be NO_COPY.
The handle will be created as needed on first access in a process. 
In addition forked processes, which may already have a malloced copy
of passwd, will do a date comparison on first access.

> > Incidentally while looking at cygheap.cc I noticed that the
> > + sizeof (_cmalloc_entry) on line 221 duplicates the one on line
> > 234. I didn't change it in this patch as it is not related to the rest,
> > but I have run with an abbreviated line 221 for a day.
>
>
> I'm not sure what you're saying.  Are you saying it's inefficient
> because it is duplicated?  I don't see anything wrong with the code.


I believe there are 8 unused bytes in every block.
On line 221 sz is what's asked + 8.
On line 234 size is sz + 8, or what's asked + 16.
The header has size 8, the last 8 bytes will never be filled.

> In a similar vein,
>
> BOOL isuninitialized () const
> ```
>   {
>     if (state == uninitialized)
>       (void) cygheap->etc_changed (me);
>     return (state == uninitialized);
>   }
>
> ```
>
> Are both tests for uninitialized necessary?  If not shouldn't it be
> something like:
>
> BOOL isuninitialized () const
> ```
>   {
>     if (state != uninitialized)
>       return false;
>     (void) cygheap->etc_changed (me);
>     return true;
>   }
> ```
>


I like functions with a single return, within reason.
I thought the compiler would be smart enough not to
test twice.

> Also, could you explain what this 'me' stuff is wrt etc_changed?


That's to go around the problem outlined in the e-mail. Objects
accessing etc_changed (for now passwd and group) have an ID (me). 
When an object discovers that etc has changed, it sets a flag for 
all *other* objects, telling them that etc has already changed
(see new code in cygheap.cc).

Pierre


