# Re: Where to put my basename() and dirname() implementation...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-15T18:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030115183034.GH15975@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030115183034.GH15975@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/15/18-29-00)

On Wed, Jan 15, 2003 at 06:04:06PM -0000, Elfyn McBratney wrote:
> Doooh! Thanks for the heads up Sergey. It kinda seems pointless just adding
> a dirname() function but what the hell... Any inkling where i should put
> this lone sub?


I don't want to add any more libiberty routines to cygwin since the
licensing is suspect.  So, please follow the normal submission rules.
Probably miscfuncs.cc is the place to add this.

cgf

> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Sergey Okhapkin" <sos@sokhapkin.dyndns.org>
> To: "'Elfyn McBratney'" <elfyn-cygwin@exposure.org.uk>;
> <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Wednesday, January 15, 2003 5:56 PM
> Subject: RE: Where to put my basename() and dirname() implementation...
>
>
> > Basename() is implemented in libiberty already, just modify cygwin.din
> > :-)
> >
> > > -----Original Message-----
> > > From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com
> > > [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Elfyn McBratney
> > > Sent: Wednesday, January 15, 2003 12:37 PM
> > > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > > Subject: Where to put my basename() and dirname() implementation...
> > >
> > >
> > > I have finished my basename() and dirname() (so long for
> > > something so simple
> > > ;-) implementation and I have two questions:
> > >
> > > 1) Where would be the best place to put these functions? I
> > > was thinking dir.cc or path.cc?
> > > 2) What header file (winsup/cygwin/include) should I put the
> > > prototypes into? On my sun and redhat box they're in libgen.h
> > > so should I follow this convention?
> > >
> > > Once I have these answered I will submit the patch here.
> > >
> > > Elfyn
> > > elfyn@exposure.org.uk
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> >
> >
> >
>
>
>



