# Re: fix cond_race... was RE: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog thread.cc thread.h ...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | nhv@cape.com, 'Jason Tishler' <jason@tishler.net> |
| **Date** | 2001-09-29T21:58:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [04f101c1496c$bfb636d0$01000001@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/04f101c1496c$bfb636d0$01000001@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../28/00-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/29/21-58-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Norman Vine" <nhv@cape.com>
To: "'Robert Collins'" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>; "'Jason
Tishler'" <jason@tishler.net>
Cc: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Sunday, September 30, 2001 1:39 AM
Subject: RE: fix cond_race... was RE: src/winsup/cygwin ChangeLog
thread.cc thread.h ...


> Robert Collins writes:
>
> > ----- Original Message -----
> > From: "Jason Tishler" <jason@tishler.net>
> > >
> > > On Fri, Sep 28, 2001 at 05:48:16PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > Well this patch should make evreything good -  fixing the
> > >
> >
>

critical
> > > > section induced race.
> > >
> > >
> > > At the risk of appearing dense...  Should this patch fix the
> >
>

pthreads
> hang
> > > trigger by Python's test_threadedtempfile regression test?
> >
> >
> > I've checked in my completed code. I -cannot- tickle this bug via my
> > test suite at all now. (I found that one of my test scripts was
>

slightly
> > buggy in that it made an incorrect assumption - it was passing when
>

this
> > bug was tickled - correcting that let me hit this bug nearly every
>

time
> > :]).
> >
> > So please, give it a go and see how it fares.
>
>
> This now causes a hard crash in any of the Python threading tests
> with an attempt to read memory at 0x00000018 failure.
>
> Note I believe this started, for me at least, with the second piece of

this
> patch.
> Also note that I could not tickle this bug before.


Interesting. Well I can drop you an updated test case which I'm sure
will tickle the older .dll. Also I found that backgrounding the window
the test is running in took the chance of hitting the bug from "very
likely" to "sure thing" - if you'll excuse the technical talk :].

> Win2k sp2  Cygwin=ntsec   python src 2-1.1-2 from cygwin distribution
>
> FYI
> gdb does attach to the failed python process
> Is there any further info I can send.


Yes. I don't have python build environment, nor much interest in having
one - so you'll need to find what bit of cygwin code is dying, and then
I'll come up with a fix for you.

> Being a bit of a gdb tweeb I may need fairly detailed instructions
> as to the gdb commands to issue


Start with bt, to get a back trace. From there look to see which
function has died. If for example the crash occured in
__pthread_cond_signal, then you would do a info locals to get local
data, and send me the bt and the info local output.

If the crash occured somewhere more detailed, like check_null_address,
then going up a frame or two would help. Lastly, if there is a class
method and a pthread wrapper both in the stack frame, info locals from
both is very useful. In the class method be sure to include the output
of
p *this
as well.

Rob


