# Re: [PATCH]: broken pipe

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-08-31T00:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040831005305.GB24132@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040831005305.GB24132@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/16-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/08/31/00-52-00)

On Mon, Aug 30, 2004 at 07:24:40PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 12:22 AM 8/30/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Aug 29, 2004 at 12:51:54PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> >
> > >
> > > My solution is for the parent fork to return the cygpid calculated
> > > from the winpid.
> > > The test program is still running after 100,000 fork/exec/pipe,
> > > a longevity record. 
> >
> >
> > Wouldn't the below solve this problem more minimally?  It moves the
> > setting of forked_pid to after it is known that the pinfo structure
> > has been filled out.
>
>
> That will work just fine as well.
>
> Having spent time understanding the program flow, I thought it would
> help others to see unambiguously that the forked cygpid is the already
> known winpid (on NT).  Waiting to read the pinfo suggests that the
> child may have put something different in there.


Which is what I wanted to achieve, actually.  I wanted to make it clear
that the setting of the pid was under the child's control.  If you
assume that the pid is always going to be X in two places then, at some
point in the future, when you change the pid to be Y you have to
remember to change two places.

> > > Two other comments:
> > > - there is still a race to create the pinfo. Hopefully all versions
> > > of Windows handle it properly. To be on the safe side, the parent could
> > > open (not create) the pinfo after the child's longjmp.
> > > - the parent copies myself->progname into the child. This seems
> > > duplicative, given that the child always sets progname from 
> > > GetModuleFileName in set_myself.
> >
> >
> > I'm not clear on why you think the race is a problem.  The end result
> > should be that the correct info is in the pinfo regardless.  It shouldn't
> > matter if CreateFileMapping or OpenFileMapping is called.
>
>
> Terminal paranoia. I am just worried that doing so on every fork may
> end up exposing an MS bug (you rightly wrote "shouldn't", not "doesn't").
> Also, there must be a critical section in the kernel. Letting Windows 
> decide in what order things are done may lead to more process switching
> than having Cygwin avoid the conflict. 


I wouldn't be surprised that there is not much difference between
CreateFileMapping and OpenFileMapping.  It's possible that OpenFileMapping
is more expensive than CreateFileMapping, given Microsoft.

More importantly, unlike the above "forked_pid" code, which is recent,
the logic flow for the rest of this stuff hasn't changed in a while so
I'm inclined not to rock the boat.

cgf


