# Re: [PATCH]setup.exe mklink2.cc some function arguments need to be pointers

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael A Chase <mchase@ix.netcom.com> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>, bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-18T18:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [026601c1e740$4832b350$2000a8c0@mchasecompaq](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/026601c1e740$4832b350$2000a8c0@mchasecompaq) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-45-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/18/18-20-00)

It looks like you are building in a branch.  The version of mklink2.cc I
have from the main branch is

static const char *cvsid =
  "\n%%% $Id: mklink2.cc,v 2.1 2002/03/26 00:25:15 rbcollins Exp $\n";

The most recent patch you applied to mklink2.cc (announcement attached) is
identical to my proposed patch, but it was applied in

```
 static const char *cvsid =
  "\n%%% $Id: mklink2.cc,v 2.1.2.2 2002/04/12 06:21:27 rbcollins Exp $\n";

```

The changelog for that is
2002-04-12  Robert Collins  <rbtcollins@hotmail.com>

* mklink2.cc (make_link_2): Tweak to work with current w32api headers.
--
Mac :})
** I normally forward private questions to the appropriate mail list. **
Ask Smarter: http://www.tuxedo.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html
Give a hobbit a fish and he eats fish for a day.
Give a hobbit a ring and he eats fish for an age.
----- Original Message -----
From: "Robert Collins" <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au>
To: <bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com>; <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 18, 2002 15:45
Subject: RE: [PATCH]setup.exe mklink2.cc some function arguments need to be
pointers


Well if you recall I had the opposite code in place (as far as I can
tell without an actual patch), and that didn't compile for a different
set of users. I completely rebuild my OS the other day, and after that
I've needed the patch. That seemed a strong indication that the w32api
was the culprit..

Rob

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Brian Keener [mailto:bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com]
> Sent: Friday, April 19, 2002 8:46 AM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: [PATCH]setup.exe mklink2.cc some function
> arguments need to be pointers
>
>
> Not to be a pain about this - but this have been reported
> several times in the
> past and I am running Win2000 and have the W32api-1.3-2
> installed.  I haven't
> seen any other w32api come down the pike so that appears to
> be the most recent.
> I have the patch - just took it out and no compile - put it
> back and it does
> compile.
>
> Not sure what Mike's OS or yours Robert or if it even makes a
> difference but I
> thought I would point out mine is Win2k.  I also have my just
> updated my CVS
> for cinstall so it is current.
>
> I know this is a me2 but I thought I would add what I could.
>
> Bk
>
>
>




---

**Attachments:**

- [src_winsup_cinstall ChangeLog mklink2.cc.eml](src_winsup_cinstall%20ChangeLog%20mklink2.cc.eml) (message)
