# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-19T01:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030819010531.GD4303@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030819010531.GD4303@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/19/01-05-00)

On Mon, Aug 18, 2003 at 08:58:32PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Aug 18, 2003 at 08:17:36PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > 5) 
> > This is just an observation, about sig_handle (int sig, bool thisproc)
> > The thisproc argument is set to "rc != 2" in the sigthread. However
> > it is possible for several signals to occur simultaneously and a
> > signal can be processed with rc == 2 even when generated by the 
> > current process (or conversely). This could cause a SIGINT to be 
> > ignored (or not) when it shouldn't (something like that was discussed
> > on the list recently).
> > I don't fully understand the use of thisproc and have no suggestion. 
>
>
> Are you saying that that someone reported execing a process, hitting
> ctrl-c, and having another process simultaneously sending CTRL-C's to
> the exec'ed stub?  I have a hard time seeing how that could be a common
> occurrence.
>
> However, this does demonstrate a flaw in wait_sig.  It exhausts the sigtodo
> array based on the last received type of signal.  So, if process a sends ctrl-c
> to itself and "at the same time" process b sends ctrl-c to process a,
> then the signal will be randomly processed as coming from either process a
> process b.  If the signal is handled as coming from process b, process a
> will never get the notification it needs.
>
> I still have a hard time seeing how this could happen with any regularity
> but it is definitely something I will fix.
>
> Thanks,


Nevermind.  It doesn't work the way I remembered.  The while loop which
decrements sigtodo only executes once when it encounters a normal UNIX
signal (it probably should just be recoded as an if).  So, this should
be a non-issue.  In fact, I don't see how multiple signals coming in at
the same time would have the effect you mentioned either.

cgf


