# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **Date** | 2003-08-19T14:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030819143305.GA17431@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030819143305.GA17431@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/19/14-33-00)

On Tue, Aug 19, 2003 at 08:46:36AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 12:13 AM 8/19/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > I may not be able to get to your patch soon since I have actual
> > honest-to-gosh Red Hat Cygwin duties to attend to for the first time
> > in quite some time.  I volunteered to help out on a cygwin project even
> > though I've moved from the group that is responsible for cygwin.  I
> > neglected those duties tonight, in fact, thanks to the excitement of
> > someone actually submitting substantial signal handling patches.  :-)
>
>
> No problem, sorry to keep you awake! Some thoughts came to my mind 
> during the night, don't know if they are still relevant after your
> changes.
>
> 1)
> > Are you saying that that someone reported execing a process, hitting
> > ctrl-c, and having another process simultaneously sending CTRL-C's to
> > the exec'ed stub?  
>
>
> The thisproc argument in sig_handle was only used to handle that exec'ed
> stub. Couldn't that condition be detected reliably in handle_exceptions(),
> case STATUS_CONTROL_C_EXIT ?


Moot point but it used to be handled that way.  I don't remember why I
changed it.

> 2)
> > I only applied the reversal of the movl with the call above since I'm
> > not convinced that moving the set_process_mask into interrupt_setup
> > doesn't introduce a race. 
>
>
> Don't we have the same problem today?
>
> Handler is running with current mask M1, old mask M0
> New signal occurs, sigthread prepares sigsave with new mask M2, old mask M1
> but is preempted before setting sigsave.sig
> Handler terminates, restores M0
> sigthread resumes and starts new handler. It runs with M2 and restores
> M1 (instead of M0) at end.


Is this any different from UNIX?  Some races in signal handling are
inavoidable, IMO.  I guess you could make things slightly more
determinstic by setting a lock.  Probably UNIX has the luxury of being
able to tell the process handling a signal to stop working for a second
while it fiddles with masks.  We don't have any reliable way of doing
that.

cgf


