# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-19T23:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030819193152.00817750@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030819193152.00817750@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/19/23-33-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > > > Don't we have the same problem today?
> > > >
> > > > Handler is running with current mask M1, old mask M0
> > > > New signal occurs, sigthread prepares sigsave with new mask M2, old
> > >
> >
>

mask M1
> > > > but is preempted before setting sigsave.sig
> > > > Handler terminates, restores M0
> > > > sigthread resumes and starts new handler. It runs with M2 and restores
> > > > M1 (instead of M0) at end.
> > >
> > >
> > > Is this any different from UNIX?  Some races in signal handling are
> > > inavoidable, IMO.  I guess you could make things slightly more
> > > determinstic by setting a lock.  Probably UNIX has the luxury of being
> > > able to tell the process handling a signal to stop working for a second
> > > while it fiddles with masks.  We don't have any reliable way of doing
> > > that.
> >
> >
> > Here is a safe way.
> >
> > 1) change sigsave to contain the incremental mask bits, set by sigthread
> >   (instead of old mask and new mask) 
>
>
> And while you are in the process of saving the incremental bits, they
> are in the process of being changed == race.  I don't see why this adds
> anything.  I'm also not sure that this is posix-sanctioned behavior.


Here are the details.

Currently the sigthread executes
```
  sigsave.oldmask = myself->getsigmask ();
  sigsave.newmask = sigsave.oldmask | siga.sa_mask | SIGTOMASK (sig);
```

As you noted last night there is a race condition with the handler,
which may terminate and change the sigmask, so that the new handler
will run with and restore incorrect masks.

What I was suggesting is to set (instead of .oldmask and .newmask)
  sigsave.deltamask = siga.sa_mask | SIGTOMASK (sig);
and to let the handler compute when it starts
  newmask =  myself->getsigmask () | sigsave.deltamask;
and then call set_process_mask (newmask)

Alternatively it's not even necessary to define sigsave.deltamask,
the handler can call directly  
set_process_mask (myself->getsigmask () | siga.sa_mask | SIGTOMASK (sig));
although that doesn't fit that well with the current asm implementation.

The overall behavior is as per posix.

Pierre


