# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: expose all windows volume mount points.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-02-10T11:25:06-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [8fb75e04-610f-d6b7-3df8-950970c9187b@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/8fb75e04-610f-d6b7-3df8-950970c9187b@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/04-38-17.thread.md#:~:text=2025/02/10/19-25-06)

Used wrong from address... :(

On Mon, 10 Feb 2025, Jeremy Drake wrote:

> On Mon, 10 Feb 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Yes, dos_drive_mappings() is what I really meant, thanks for pointing
> > it out.
> >
> > So I wonder why not include your additional requirements into the
> > dos_drive_mappings class and just use it to iterate over the mount
> > points.  AFAICS there are only two things missing in dos_drive_mappings:
> >
> > - looking for all mount points, not just the first one, and
> > - bookkeeping over getmntent calls
> >
> > If you add a state pointer (pointing to the current mapping) to
> > dos_drive_mappings, you only need a single slot in the TLS, holding a
> > pointer to your dos_drive_mappings instance.
>
>
> This would be much cleaner, I think.  I'll look at this.
>
> > [...time passes...]
> >
> > Hang on, there might be a bug here...
> >
> > [...time passes...]
> >
> > Why do we keep the cygdrive state in cygtls anyway?  From history I see
> > that this has been the case since at least 2003.
> >
> > Per definition, getmntent isn't thread-safe at all, and getmntent_r is
> > only thread-safe in that it keeps the data in a buffer provided by the
> > caller.
> > However, the state information is process-wide: if you call getmntent
> > alternating in two different threads, they don't see the same set of
> > drives, but only every second drive.
> >
> > At least this is the case on Linux.  Don't we subvert expectations
> > by handling getmentent thread-local?
> >
> > If I'm thinking to much outside the box, feel free to kick me.
>
>
> That's well outside my scope ;).  I think 1) getmentent is pretty well
> deprecated, and 2) if something isn't defined to be thread-safe, pretty
> much anything it happens to do in the face of multiple threads using it is
> fine (to me, we're in the realms of UB here).
>




