# Re: [PATCH] Disable AF_UNIX handshake with setsockopt(..., SO_PEERCRED, ...)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2014-10-11T18:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20141011183644.GS2681@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20141011183644.GS2681@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/12-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2014/10/11/18-36-00)

On Oct 10 20:04, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct 10 18:36, Christian Franke wrote:
> > After a nonblocking connect(), postfix calls poll() with pollfd.events =
> > POLLIN only. If poll() succeeds, it calls recv(). This fails with ENOTCONN
> > because the state is still connect_pending.
>
>
> Oh.  So it doesn't check if the connect succeeded?  Does it check the
> poll result for POLLERR or does it explicitely check for revents==POLLIN?
>
> Hmm.
>
> [...time passes...]
>
> It looks like you catched a long-standing bug here.
>
> This isn't even AF_LOCAL specific.  The original comment in the
> write_selected branch is misleading: The AF_LOCAL specific part is just
> the call to af_local_connect, not setting the connect_state.  There was
> a previous, longer comment at one point which I shortened for no good
> reason in 2005:
>
> ```
>   /* eid credential transaction on successful non-blocking connect.
>      Since the read bit indicates an error, don't start transaction
>      if it's set. */
>
> ```
>
> However, If I'm not completely mistaken, your patch would only work in
> the aforementioned scenario if setsockopt(SO_PEERCRED) has been called.
> Otherwise the handshake would be skipped on the connect side and thus
> the handshake would fail on the server side.  There's also the problem
> that read_ready may indicate an error.  And POLLERR is only set if the
> socket is polled for POLLOUT so a failing connect would go unnoticed.
>
> In short, the whole code is written under the assumption that any sane
> application calling nonblocking connect would always call select/poll to
> check if connect succeeded in the first place.  Obviously, as postfix
> shows, this is a wrong assumption. 
>
> I'm not yet sure how to fix this, but I'll look into this next week.


I applied a fix which, I think, is much more elegant than the former
solution.  The af_local_connect call is now called as soon as an
FD_CONNECT event is generated and read by a call to wait_event.  It
worked for me, so I have tender hopes that I didn't miss something.

I also applied your patch on top of this new stuff and I'm just building
a new developer snapshot for testing.  In setsockopt I added a check for
socket family and type so setsockopt(SO_PEERCRED) only works for
AF_LOCAL/SOCK_STREAM sockets, just as the entire handshake stuff.  I
also added a comment to explain why we do this and a FIXME comment so we
don't forget we're still looking for a more generic solution for the
SO_PEERCRED exchange.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
