# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: add wrappers for newer new/delete overloads

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-08-01T09:52:06+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aIxyJhpNdghzzt1w@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aIxyJhpNdghzzt1w@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/25/23-10-32.thread.md#:~:text=2025/08/01/07-52-06)

On Jul 31 16:57, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Thu, 31 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Jul 31 12:05, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > I noticed that dll_crt0_1 calls check_sanity_and_sync which performs some
> > > checking on the per_process struct from the application, including if the
> > > application's api_major is greater than the dll's.  However, this is after
> > > _cygwin_crt0_common already runs.  I tested by downgrading to
> > > 3.7.0-0.266 and running an executable that I had built with 267 (but not
> > > using the new wrappers).  It didn't crash during startup, but it did seem
> > > to crash after forking (it was doing a posix_spawn).  So maybe the
> > > api_major check could catch this after the fact but before the corruption
> > > caused any more issues.
> >
> >
> > How so?  That would be in the DLL, but you're running an old DLL which
> > you can't change retroactively.  OTOH, _cygwin_crt0_common already
> > overwrites memory.
>
>
> Yes, this check happens after _cygwin_crt0_common has overwitten the
> bounds of the __cygwin_cxx_malloc struct, but in my testing this isn't
> immediately fatal, and the api_major check would abend the program with a
> suitable message.  I should test this with MSYS2, to make sure the memory
> layout of the dll isn't different,


The memory layout is fly-by-night.  Different compiler, different
compiler versions, subtil, unrelated changes in the DLL...

> and also because it's easier to get
> older DLL versions (I only tried with the snapshot of 3.7.0 before the new
> wrappers were added, but I can try with 3.6 3.5 3.4 and 3.3 there
> pretty easily).


Doesn't make much sense, IMHO, unless you really love spending time
with testing old versions :)


Corinna


