# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-10-22T04:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121022040942.GA9515@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121022040942.GA9515@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/22/04-09-00)

On Sun, Oct 21, 2012 at 01:32:41PM -0500, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Sun, 2012-10-21 at 13:10 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > That said, is it time to ask the mingw.org stuff to relocate their CVS
> > repo?  I could tar up the affected CVS directories for them if so.
>
>
> What about some CVSROOT/modules magic to exclude winsup/mingw and
> winsup/w32api from a Cygwin checkout?
>
> 1) change the existing cygwin module to naked-cygwin; 2) add a new
> cygwin module with "-a src-support naked-cygwin naked-newlib
> naked-include"; 3) change the directions on cvs.html to "cvs co cygwin"
> instead of "cvs co winsup" for new checkouts; 4) devs with existing
> checkouts could just rm -fr winsup/mingw winsup/w32api if they so
> choose (but with the patch, they won't be used anymore even if
> present).
>
> As mingw.org already treats winsup/mingw and winsup/w32api as separate
> repos[1], that should do the trick for us without forcing them to move.
> Given our long-standing cooperation until now, I think it's the least
> we could do.


I wasn't trying to punish anyone.  I actually thought that they probably
hadn't moved already mainly out of courtesy to us.  I vaguely recall some
rumbling about this in the past.

I've cc'ed Earnie to see how he feels about it.

Earnie, we seem to be transitioning from the need to have a mingw/w32api
in the source tree.  What do you think about removing these directories
from the depot and moving repo to sourceforge, or some other place?

You've got a home for as long as you like on sourceware.org but I was
thinking that it might be advantageous for mingw to move anyway.

If it helps, I can provide tar copies of the directories from
sourceware.

Alternately, I can also provide you with a top-level directory at
sourceware.org if that is preferable.

cgf


