# Re: [PATCH v2 0/6] Some AF_UNIX fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-10-15T10:16:12+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201015081612.GD26704@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201015081612.GD26704@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/16-49-42.thread.md#:~:text=2020/10/15/08-16-12)

On Oct 14 12:39, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On 10/13/2020 7:49 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Oct  8 17:36, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On 10/4/2020 12:49 PM, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > I'm about to push these.  Corinna, please check them when you return.
> > > > The only difference between v2 and v1 is that there are a few more
> > > > fixes.
> > > >
> > > > I'm trying to help get the AF_UNIX development going again.  I'm
> > > > mostly working on the topic/af_unix branch.  But when I find bugs that
> > > > exist on master, I'll push those to master and then merge master to
> > > > topic/af_unix.
> > >
> > >
> > > FYI to Corinna and anyone else interested in AF_UNIX development.  After
> > > pushing a few patches to the topic/af_unix branch I did some cleanup
> > > (locally) and merged master into the topic branch.  I don't want to do a
> > > forced push and risk messing up the branch, so I've created a new branch,
> > > topic/af_unix_new, and will do all further work there until Corinna returns
> > > and decides how we should proceed.
> >
> >
> > No, that's ok, just force push.
>
>
> OK, I've done that now.  The branch contains a few sendmsg fixes, a first
> cut of a recvmsg implementation, and a merge from master.  I've done some
> testing of recvmsg, but many things are not yet tested.  I'll work on
> continued testing next.


This is sooo great!

> from Kerrisk's book, because that's what I read to learn the basics of
> sockets.  But those are just examples and are not meant to be comprehensive.


What Mark and Brian said, Stevens' book is quite nice, and there's
code available.  I downloaded the tar file with all code examples
way back when, but apparently the code is on github now, as Brian
pointed out.


Thanks,
Corinna


