# Re: [PATCH] Fix /proc/meminfo and /proc/swaps for >4GB

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-12T06:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110512065113.GA18135@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110512065113.GA18135@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/19-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/12/06-51-00)

On May 11 22:58, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Mon, 2011-05-09 at 09:55 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > I'm not sure I understand this new format.  Why do you keep the Mem: and
> > Swap: lines?  Linux doesn't have them and top appears to work without
> > them.  And then, why do you print MemShared, HighTotal, and HighFree,
> > even though they are always 0, but not all the other ~40 lines Linux'
> > meminfo has, too?
>
>
> Actually, my patch makes no attempt to change the actual format
> of /proc/meminfo; it changes only what is necessary to handle RAM or
> swap larger than 4GB by using ULLs instead of ULs.


That's fine and thanks for that.  I'm only puzzled what's actually
printed.

> As for modernizing/fixing the format, true, the Mem: and Swap: lines do
> not exist in modern Linux, nor does the MemShared: line.  I would like
> to actually define at least HighTotal and HighFree; I'll try to look
> into that further soon.  As for the rest of Linux's /proc/meminfo, I'll
> have to see how many other lines can be reasonably determined (if they
> would exist at all) on Windows.


That would be cool, but that wasn't what I meant.  I was just puzzled
that you added values which are always 0, but left out others which are
always 0, too.  I was missing a system, kind of.

> So with the ULL changes, if I remove the Mem, Swap, and MemShared lines,
> will that do for now?


Sure.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


