# Re: Extending /proc/*/maps

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-12T16:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110512165520.GB3020@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110512165520.GB3020@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/05-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/12/16-56-00)

On May 12 12:31, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> On 12/05/2011 11:09 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On May 12 14:10, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On May 11 21:31, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On May 11 13:46, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > > > > Given that Heap32* has already been reverse-engineered by others,
> > > > > the main challenge would involve sorting the set of heap block
> > > > > addresses and distilling them down to a set of allocation bases. We
> > > > > don't want to do repeated linear searches over 50k+ heap blocks.
> > > >
> > > > While the base address of the heap is available in
> > > > DEBUG_HEAP_INFORMATION, I don't see the size of the heap.  Maybe it's in
> > > > the block of 7 ULONGs marked as "Reserved"?  It must be somewhere.
> > > > Assuming just that, you could scan the list of blocks once and drop
> > > > those within the orignal heap allocation.  The remaining blocks are big
> > > > blocks which have been allocated by additional calls to VirtualAlloc.
> > >
> > > After some debugging, I now have the solution. [...]
> >
> > Here's a prelimiary patch to fhandler_process.cc which takes everything
> > into account I have learned in the meantime.  For instance, there are
> > actually heaps marked as shareable.  Please have a look.  What's missing
> > is the flag for low-fragmentation heaps, but I'm just hunting for it.
>
> I like it. Detailed comments below.
>
> > ```
> > +/* Known heap flags */
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_NOSERIALIZE	0x1
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_GROWABLE	0x2
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_EXCEPTIONS	0x4
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_NONDEFAULT	0x1000
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_SHAREABLE	0x8000
> > +#define HEAP_FLAG_EXECUTABLE	0x40000
> > ```
> >
>
> Would it make sense to put those in ntdll.h along with the heap
> structs that use them?


Sure.

> > ```
> >    struct heap
> >    {
> >      heap *next;
> > ```
> >
> > -    void *base;
> > ```
> > +    unsigned heap_id;
> > +    uintptr_t base;
> > +    uintptr_t end;
> > +    unsigned long flags;
> > ```
> >
> >    };
>
> We don't actually need the end pointer: we're trying to match an


No, we need it.  The heaps consist of reserved and committed memory
blocks, as well as of shareable and non-shareable blocks.  Thus you
get multiple VirtualQuery calls per heap, thus you have to check for
the address within the entire heap(*).

> >    heap *heaps;
>
> This is a misnomer now -- it's really a list of heap regions/blocks.


I don't think so.  The loop stores only the blocks which constitute
the original VirtualAlloc'ed memory regions.  They are not the real
heap blocks returned by Heap32First/Heap32Next.  These are filtered
out by checking for flags & 2 (**).

> > ```diff
> > +		heap *h = (heap *) cmalloc (HEAP_FHANDLER, sizeof (heap));
> > +		*h = (heap) {heaps, hcnt, barray[bcnt].Address,
> > +			     barray[bcnt].Address + barray[bcnt].Size,
> > +			     harray->Heaps[hcnt].Flags};
> > +		heaps = h;
> > ```
> >
>
> Given that the number of heap blocks is potentially large, I think


Not really.  See (**).  3 heaps -> 3 blocks, or only slightly more
if a growable heap got expanded.

> Do you actually encounter requests which fall inside a heap region
> rather than at its start?


Yes, see (*).  And have a look into the output of my code in
contrast to what's printed by the currently version from CVS.

>  I have not seen this in my experiments,
> and if you have it is almost certainly a bug in format_process_maps'
> allocation traversal.


No, see (*).

> Also, are there ever shareable-but-not-mem_mapped segments?


Yes, there are.  2 of the 3 default heaps are marked as shareable, but
one of them is only partially shared.  Of course I don't understand the
reason behind this and how this is accomplished, given that the user
code can't even set a flag "shareable" at HeapCreate time.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


