# Re: Small security patches

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-12-11T13:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021211213532.GA32204@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021211213532.GA32204@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/12/11/13-34-00)

On Wed, Dec 11, 2002 at 04:17:10PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Wed, Dec 11, 2002 at 03:56:17PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > >
> > > > Shouldn't the global symbols be marked as "NO_COPY"?
> > >
> > >
> > > I am not sure why things are as they are.
> > > These symbols are initialized in do_global_ctors and never change.
> > > Are the constructors running again after a fork? If so, NO_COPY is fine.
> > > It would seem more efficient to copy than to rerun the constructors,
> > > but I probably overlook some factors.
> >
> >
> > Constructors are always run.  If you use a global constructor without a
> > NO_COPY then you just end up writing over the contents when the fork
> > completes.  So, if the constructor is setting things up correctly the
> > global should be NO_COPY.  Actually, if you can get away without using a
> > constructor that would be best.  Constructors are a noticeable part of
> > cygwin's startup cost.
>
>
> Thanks for the information. While we are at it, I was looking at the 
> code and noticed that there were hooks to avoid running the constructors
> (things such as "force" and "user_data->run_ctors_p"). 
> Are they ever used or are they history?


Both are used.  You can see them in dcrt0.cc.  The same function is
called from the "dll context" (dll_crt0_1) and the "program context"
(__main) since there are separate sets of constructors for each case.

cgf


