# Re: [PATCH 0/2] Return appropriate handle by _get_osfhandle() and GetStdHandle().

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-03-23T11:10:04+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YFm+fEONY3wLq3Sp@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YFm+fEONY3wLq3Sp@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/04-01-24.thread.md#:~:text=2021/03/23/10-10-04)

[CC Marco, CC Jan]

On Mar 22 13:02, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> [Still CC Marco]
>
> On 3/22/2021 7:43 AM, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > [CC Marco]
> >
> > On Mar 22 08:07, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Sun, 21 Mar 2021 17:44:27 +0900
> > > Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > [...]
> > > > However, following cygwin apps/dlls call _get_osfhandle():
> > > > ccmake.exe
> > > > cmake.exe
> > > > cpack.exe
> > > > ctest.exe
> > > > ddrescue.exe
> > >
> >
>


I'm pretty sure ddrescue needs the osfhandle just to access raw block
devices.

> > > > And also, following cygwin apps/dlls call GetStdHandle():
> > > > ccmake.exe
> > > > cmake.exe
> > > > cpack.exe
> > > > ctest.exe
> > > > run.exe
> > >
> >
>


run creates its own conin/conout handles to create a hidden console.
The code calling GetStdHandle() is only for debug purposes and never
built into the executable.

> > > > cygusb0.dll
> > >
> >
>


This lib tries to access USB devices only.

> > > > tk86.dll
> > >
> >
>


Not sure about this one.  In theory this shouldn't happen, given our
tk is built against X11, not against the Windows GUI.

Jan, can you please check where and why tk86.dll calls GetStdHandle.
I found a few places in the source where GetStdHandle is called, but
it's not clear to me which one is called.

> Out of curiosity, I took a quick glance at the cmake code.  It appears that
> this code is designed to support running cmake in a Console.  I don't think
> that should be needed any more, if it ever was.
> [...]
> I think the following might suffice (untested):
>
> ```diff
> --- a/Source/kwsys/Terminal.c
> +++ b/Source/kwsys/Terminal.c
> @@ -10,7 +10,7 @@
>  #endif
>
>  /* Configure support for this platform.  */
> -#if defined(_WIN32) || defined(__CYGWIN__)
> +#if defined(_WIN32)
>  #  define KWSYS_TERMINAL_SUPPORT_CONSOLE
>  #endif
>  #if !defined(_WIN32)
> ```
>


Looks right to me.  If we patch cmake to do the right thing, do we still
need this patch, Takashi?


Thanks,
Corinna


