# Re: [PATCH 0/2] Return appropriate handle by _get_osfhandle() and GetStdHandle().

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-03-23T13:44:39+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YFnit7OtFJeflMQT@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YFnit7OtFJeflMQT@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/04-01-24.thread.md#:~:text=2021/03/23/12-44-39)

On Mar 23 21:32, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Tue, 23 Mar 2021 13:17:16 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Mar 23 20:57, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > On Mar 22 08:07, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > > > > > And also, following cygwin apps/dlls call GetStdHandle():
> > > > > > > > ccmake.exe
> > > > > > > > cmake.exe
> > > > > > > > cpack.exe
> > > > > > > > ctest.exe
> > > > > > > > run.exe
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > run creates its own conin/conout handles to create a hidden console.
> > > > The code calling GetStdHandle() is only for debug purposes and never
> > > > built into the executable.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Sorry, but this was utterly wrong.  run calls GetStdHandle, then
> > overwrites the handles, but only if it doesn't already is attached to a
> > console.
> >
> > > > Looks right to me.  If we patch cmake to do the right thing, do we still
> > > > need this patch, Takashi?
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think so. If all is well with current code, nothing to be fixed.
> >
> >
> > How do you evaluate this in light of the run behaviour above?
>
>
> I try to check run.exe behaviour and noticed that
> run cmd.exe
> and
> run cat.exe
> does not work with cygwin 3.0.7 and 3.2.0 (TEST) while these
> work in 3.1.7.
>
> Is this expected behaviour?


The problem is that I never used run.  I can't actually tell what
exactly is expected.  I *think* run was intended to start Cygwin
applications without console window in the first place, not
native Windows apps, but I could be wrong.

I don't even know if anybody is actually, seriously using it.
The biggest problem with run is probably that it's unmaintained for
a long time, and seeing code comments like

```
  /* Note: we do it this way instead of using GetConsoleWindow()
   * because we want it to work on < w2k.
   */

```

doesn't actually make me confident in its viability for any purpose...


Corinna


