# Re: [Patch] cygcheck: warn about trailing (back)slash on mount entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-06T18:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041006184107.GO29973@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041006184107.GO29973@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/06/18-41-00)

On Wed, Oct 06, 2004 at 12:00:15PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Wed, Oct 06, 2004 at 11:30:17AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > >
> > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > >
> > > > On Wed, Oct 06, 2004 at 03:12:45PM +0200, Bas van Gompel wrote:
> > > > > Another (hopefully trivial) patch, to help in trouble-shooting.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Wasn't there another problem where "foo\/bar" type of entries were
> > > > showing up?  Could you add a check for that, too?
> > >
> > >
> > > I while ago I have modified Cygwin to accept this kind of syntax.
> > > Is there a remaining problem in the current release?
> > > Otherwise I don't see the need to alarm the user.
> >
> >
> > It's just a warning.  This really shouldn't be in the mount table
> > and it really should be corrected.
>
>
> I don't think it's checking the mount table,


Ok, sigh, yes, I "mispoke".  s/mount table/registry/.

> it's checking the registry.  The entry will be cleaned up by the time
> it gets to the mount table.  What would be useful is a check that
> ::add_item will accept the registry entry, i.e.  won't return EINVAL or
> perhaps "path too long".  The relevant part of add_item is pasted
> below.  It shows when EINVAL is returned.


cygcheck is not a cygwin program.  It has it's own implementation of
getmntent which reads the registry directly, and, it displays the \/
paths when you do a 'cygcheck -s'.  It can check for these types of
problems and it should warn about them.

cgf


