# Re: [PATCH 0/8] Fix dumper for x86_64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-07-06T20:10:12+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200706181012.GE514059@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200706181012.GE514059@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/21-25-21.thread.md#:~:text=2020/07/06/18-10-12)

On Jul  6 14:34, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 06/07/2020 09:12, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jul  5 17:49, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 02/07/2020 08:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jul  1 22:29, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > This needs to be aligned with some changes to gdb to consume the dumps it
> > > > > produces, so it's probably best to hold off applying this until it's more
> > > > > obvious what's going to happen with those.
> > > > >
> > > > > Random notes:
> > > > >
> > > > > - objdump identifies the output of dumper on x86_64 as
> > > > > 'elf64-x86-64-cloudabi' (perhaps due to some over-eager sniffer).
> > > > >
> > > > > - regions excluded from the dump aren't rounded up to page size, so we may
> > > > > end up writing the excess into the dump.
> > > > >
> > > > > - looking at the loaded modules and inspecting them to determine what memory
> > > > > regions don't need to appear in the dump seems odd.  I'm not sure we don't
> > > > > just exclude MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Type == MEM_IMAGE regions (assuming
> > > > > they get converted to MEM_PRIVATE regions if written when copy-on-write).
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > Unfortunately, that doesn't happen, and the region appears to stay
> > > MEM_IMAGE, even if it's been modified.
> > >
> > > I'm inclined to just dump MEM_IMAGE regions if they are writable (although
> > > using the current protection isn't 100% correct, because it may have been
> > > changed using VirtualProtect())
> > >
> > > I suspect there's probably some undocumented MemoryInformationClass for
> > > NtQueryVirtualMemory() that would let us determine if a region is sharable
> > > or not, but ...
> >
> >
> > Surprisingly, there's nothing undocumented in NtQueryVirtualMemory and
> > the API is fully exposed by VirtualQuery(Ex).
>
>
> I came across [1], which seems to use some MemoryInformationClass values I
> can't find any MSDN documentation on, but perhaps I'm getting lost.
>
> [1] https://github.com/processhacker/processhacker/blob/master/phnt/include/ntmmapi.h#L87


Uh, sorry.  I confused NtQueryVirtualMemory with just the
MemoryBasicInformation class.  Looking into the above, the
MEMORY_REGION_INFORMATION struct looks pretty interesting
but I doubt it helps...


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


