# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: introduce close_range

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-01-15T12:19:54+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [7e7efac7-95fe-6d2c-db78-6dd892f93030@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/7e7efac7-95fe-6d2c-db78-6dd892f93030@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/16-07-40.thread.md#:~:text=2024/01/15/11-19-54)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Christian,
>
> On Jan 15 09:56, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 14/01/2024 16:07, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > > Recently I learned about the existence and usefulness of close_range():
> > > > > https://github.com/smartmontools/smartmontools/issues/235
> > > > >
> > > > > https://man.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=close_range&sektion=2
> > > > > https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/close_range.2.html
> > > > >
> > > > > Note that the above Linux man page is not fully correct. The
> > > > > include file "linux/close_range.h" exists, but provides only the
> > > > > defines. It is sufficient to include "unistd.h" as on FreeBSD.
> > > > >
> > > > > The attached patch adds this to Cygwin. It does not implement
> > > > > the Linux-specific CLOSE_RANGE_UNSHARE as I have no idea how to
> > > > > do this :-)
> > > >
> > > > This API should also be mentioned in the
> > > > "System interfaces compatible with GNU or Linux extensions" section
> > > > of doc/posix.xml
> > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > > Thanks for the info. I used the recent "Cygwin: introduce fallocate(2)"
> > > patch as a blueprint for which other files should be changed (fallocate
> > > is also missing in the posix.xml file).
> > >
> > > I will provide a new patch soon which also fixes an unlikely but
> > > possible corner case: Pass a value larger than MAX_INT as lower limit.
> > >
> >
> > Attached. I also decided to simply ignore CLOSE_RANGE_UNSHARE for now.
>
> After reading up on this issue, I think we should not ignore
> CLOSE_RANGE_UNSHARE, but quite explicitely not implement it as a valid
> flag.
>
> The whole idea behind CLOSE_RANGE_UNSHARE depends on the way the Linux
> kernel creates threads and (forked) processes and the fact that it has a
> wide range of ways to share parts of the execution context between
> parent and child process/thread.
>
> So on Linux, a process/thread can actually decide if they share or not
> share the descriptor table with the created process/thread.  That's
> what the CLONE_FILES flag to clone(2) and unshare(2) manage.
>
> However, just as in FreeBSD, there's no such thing in Cygwin.  Threads
> always share descriptors, processes never share file desriptors.
>
> The bottom line is, I think the decision of the FreeBSD developer not to
> expose the CLOSE_RANGE_UNSHARE flag at all, was the right decision.
>
> We should not claim that we even remotely have a way of doing this
> the Linux way.
>
> Does that make sense?


Yes - new patch attached.



---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Cygwin-introduce-close_range-2.patch](0001-Cygwin-introduce-close_range-2.patch) (text)
