# Re: [PATCH 1/5] Cygwin: Make 'ulimit -c' control writing a coredump

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2024-01-15T13:27:45Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3dafa845-a583-4b47-b0d6-3b16f46c8a67@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3dafa845-a583-4b47-b0d6-3b16f46c8a67@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/14-09-51.thread.md#:~:text=2024/01/15/13-27-45)

On 15/01/2024 09:46, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 13 14:20, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 12/01/2024 14:09, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > ```
> > > +
> > > +  PWCHAR cp = dumper_command;
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, L"\"");
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, dll_dir);
> > > ```
> > >
> > > ```
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, L"\\dumper.exe");
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, L"\" ");
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, L"\"");
> > > +  cp = wcpcpy (cp, global_progname);
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > I wonder if this should be program_invocation_short_name, so that the
> > coredump is created in the cwd, rather than next to the executable.
>
>
> program_invocation_short_name would be nice, but does it really matter?
>
> Because...
>
> > But then, there's then no way to get similar behaviour if you decide you
> > want to use minidumps instead (by setting CYGWIN="error_start=minidumper"),
> > as the first argument to dumper/minidump is the full path to the program (to
> > match the 'prog procID' style of invoking gdb), but they only use it to add
> > an .core/.dmp extension to name the file to write.
> >
> > I guess that could by fixed by adding an option to the dumpers to strip
> > paths, or more control about how the JIT command is formatted.
>
>
> dumper/minidumper are both called with the current working directory set
> to the ... current working directory, right?  With the full pathname as
> input, and the CWD already set the same as the dumped application, they
> can easily generate any target path for the corefile they like.
>
> Given the actual path of the corefile can be generated by the dumpers,
> the question is how to specify where to store the corefile. For instance
>
> - no option: CWD
> - some option -c/--coredir for anywhere else
>
> Under Linux versions using systemd, corefiles are by default not stored
> in the CWD anymore, but to /var/lib/systemd/coredump, so there is a
> use case for arbitrary corefile paths.


Yeah, I guess an option to the dumper to control where the file is 
written is probably the best way to address this, which is something 
which can perhaps be added later...



