# Re: [PATCH 0/5] Generate cygwin-api manpages

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-18T20:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150618200514.GR31537@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150618200514.GR31537@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/12-37-00-4.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/18/20-05-00)

On Jun 18 11:46, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 17/06/2015 17:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 17 16:59, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > On 17/06/2015 14:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jun 17 13:37, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > > > This patch set changes the DocBook source XML for the Cygwin API reference to
> > > > > use refentry elements, and also generates man pages from that.
> > > > >
> > > > > Again, note that after this, the chunked html now has a page for each function,
> > > > > rather than one containing all functions.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Patchset approved, basically, except...
> > > >
> > > > The next cygwin.cygport file will explicitly exclude the man pages
> > > > section 1.  But it won't exclude section 3, and I'm rather not hot
> > > > on excluding each newly generated API file explicitly.
> > >
> > >
> > > Yes, I hadn't noticed that regex.3 manpage, which makes things a bit of a
> > > pain.
> > >
> > > But maybe you write in cygwin_devel_CONTENTS something like
> > > "--exclude=usr/share/man/ usr/share/man/man3/regex.3.gz
> > > usr/share/man/man7/regex.7.gz" ?
> >
> >
> > exclude?  This would require to move both files to cygwin-doc
> > as you outlined below.  It would essentially remove all man pages
> > from the cygwin core packages and then we exclude usr/share/man,
> > as you outlined below as well.
>
>
> Hmm?  I thought perhaps this would exclude everything under usr/share/man,
> then include regex.3 and regex.7


I just tried it and it works.  So that's an option for the time being,
I guess.  Btw., I added a tweak to Makefile.in to skip *.3 and *.7 files
in the release dir :)

> > > I think this just needs 'make info' adding to the .cygport, as newlib
> > > doesn't build this on 'make all'
> >
> >
> > ```
> >   libc.info and libm.info are built by default, but they are not
> >   installed with `make install'
> > ```
> >
>
>
> That seems a little odd.


Indeed, but that could be done manually in the cygport file if required.
I'm not that close to the newlib build system...

> > > If the suggestion above doesn't work, I guess possible approaches to
> > > coordination are:
> > >
> > > * Move regex.[37] from cygwin-devel to cygwin-doc, and exclude
> > > /usr/share/man
> >
> >
> > ... this sounds good to me.
>
>
> Let's do things that way, then.


Or the above, whatever is easier for the start.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
