# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: make path_conv::isdevice() return false on socket files

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-07-21T07:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [619bf054-ae39-75af-eb12-e9b3b6115555@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/619bf054-ae39-75af-eb12-e9b3b6115555@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/07/21/07-15-00)

On 2019-07-20 19:46, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 7/20/2019 6:53 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 7/19/2019 4:28 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > I see what you're doing here, but it's totally non-obvious from the 
> > > commit message why this fixes the problem and doesn't introduce weird 
> > > side-effects.
> >
> > Thanks.  I was pretty careless with this patch.
> > There's a new patch series on the way that (I hope) does it right.
> > > An editorial note: While looking into your patch it occured to me that
> > > it would be about time to go over all the is***device() methods and
> > > clean up the mess.  E.g., is_fs_device() is used by is_lnk_special()
> > > only, is_auto_device() doesn't have much meaning,
> >
> > I've removed is_fs_device() and is_auto_device()
> > > some funcs have underscores, some don't.
> >
> > The convention seems to be that is<something> uses underscores if and only if
> > "something" is a single word.
>
> ```
>                ^
>               not
> ```
>
> > The only exception I saw is isctty_capable.
> > I didn't bother changing this, but I could if you want me to.
>


Anything beginning is or to followed by a lower case letter may be used by the
(library) implementation and may be considered reserved: best to interpose an
underscore as systems with better language support inc. BSDs are adding classes.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


