# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: make path_conv::isdevice() return false on socket files

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-07-21T15:40:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [7992b043-d694-5ce2-cfdd-466c13d7f6bb@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/7992b043-d694-5ce2-cfdd-466c13d7f6bb@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/20-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/07/21/15-40-00)

On 2019-07-21 08:25, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 7/21/2019 3:15 AM, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > Anything beginning is or to followed by a lower case letter may be used by the
> > (library) implementation and may be considered reserved: best to interpose an
> > underscore as systems with better language support inc. BSDs are adding classes.
>
>
> I assume you're referring to the POSIX name space rules, as in Section 2.2.2 of 
> https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/V2_chap02.html.  I 
> don't see how that's related to the present discussion (identifiers used in 
> classes internal to Cygwin).


Software hygiene for 9899 (see 7.1.4 Future Library Directions), POSIX, and C++
(anything in the std namespace) conformance: 9899 and others are normative
references in both POSIX and C++.

"Also, POSIX.1-2017 defines symbols that are not permitted by other standards to
appear in those headers without some control on the visibility of those symbols."

Normative References -
http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap01.html#tag_01_03 -
includes FORTRAN, 646 ASCII and 10646 UTF8 BMP, 8601 dates/times, and 4217
currencies/funds!

So we can't use anything that is currently or might be used in the future by any
compiler or library.

Builds break unexpectedly, and sometimes more widely than you might think, when
a header included perhaps indirectly, declares or defines something you have
improperly used.

BTDT Got The T-Shirt - structure member name used in a number of structures in
app headers included in and used in almost all sources, toasted by a macro
definition in a std header required in almost all those sources - as a core dev
I got to do the cleanup! ;^>

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


