# Re: [PATCH 3/3] fhandler_pty_slave::setup_locale: respect charset == "UTF-8"

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-09-08T17:16:48+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200908171648.e65665caebb643ce99910fa3@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200908171648.e65665caebb643ce99910fa3@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/16-19-16.thread.md#:~:text=2020/09/08/08-16-48)

On Mon, 7 Sep 2020 23:17:36 +0200 (CEST)
Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> Hi Takashi,
>
> On Sat, 5 Sep 2020, Takashi Yano wrote:
>
> > On Fri, 4 Sep 2020 08:23:42 +0200 (CEST)
> > Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > >
> > > On Fri, 4 Sep 2020, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > >
> > > > On Tue, 1 Sep 2020 18:19:16 +0200 (CEST)
> > > > Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > When `LANG=en_US.UTF-8`, the detected `LCID` is 0x0409, which is
> > > > > correct, but after that (at least if Pseudo Console support is enabled),
> > > > > we try to find the default code page for that `LCID`, which is ASCII
> > > > > (437). Subsequently, we set the Console output code page to that value,
> > > > > completely ignoring that we wanted to use UTF-8.
> > > > >
> > > > > Let's not ignore the specifically asked-for UTF-8 character set.
> > > > >
> > > > > While at it, let's also set the Console output code page even if Pseudo
> > > > > Console support is disabled; contrary to the behavior of v3.0.7, the
> > > > > Console output code page is not ignored in that case.
> > > > >
> > > > > The most common symptom would be that console applications which do not
> > > > > specifically call `SetConsoleOutputCP()` but output UTF-8-encoded text
> > > > > seem to be broken with v3.1.x when they worked plenty fine with v3.0.x.
> > > > >
> > > > > This fixes https://github.com/msys2/MSYS2-packages/issues/1974,
> > > > > https://github.com/msys2/MSYS2-packages/issues/2012,
> > > > > https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/8369,
> > > > > https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/issues/2734,
> > > > > https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/issues/2793,
> > > > > https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/issues/2792, and possibly quite a
> > > > > few others.
> > > > >
> > > > > Signed-off-by: Johannes Schindelin <johannes.schindelin@gmx.de>
> > > > > ---
> > > > > ```
> > > > >  winsup/cygwin/fhandler_tty.cc | 9 +++++++++
> > > > >  1 file changed, 9 insertions(+)
> > > > >
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > > ```diff
> > > > > diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_tty.cc b/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_tty.cc
> > > > > index 06789a500..414c26992 100644
> > > > > --- a/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_tty.cc
> > > > > +++ b/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_tty.cc
> > > > > @@ -2859,6 +2859,15 @@ fhandler_pty_slave::setup_locale (void)
> > > > >    char charset[ENCODING_LEN + 1] = "ASCII";
> > > > >    LCID lcid = get_langinfo (locale, charset);
> > > > >
> > > > > +  /* Special-case the UTF-8 character set */
> > > > > +  if (strcasecmp (charset, "UTF-8") == 0)
> > > > > +    {
> > > > > +      get_ttyp ()->term_code_page = CP_UTF8;
> > > > > +      SetConsoleCP (CP_UTF8);
> > > > > +      SetConsoleOutputCP (CP_UTF8);
> > > > > +      return;
> > > > > +    }
> > > > > +
> > > > >    /* Set console code page from locale */
> > > > >    if (get_pseudo_console ())
> > > > >      {
> > > > > --
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > > 2.27.0
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I would like to propose a counter patch attached.
> > > > What do you think of this patch?
> > > >
> > > > This patch does not treat UTF-8 as special.
> > >
> > >
> > > Sure, but it only fixes the issue in `disable_pcon` mode in the current
> > > tip commit. That's because a new Pseudo Console is created for every
> > > spawned non-Cygwin console application, and that new Pseudo Console does
> > > _not_ have the code page set by your patch.
> >
> >
> > You are right. However, if pseudo console is enabled, the app
> > which works correclty in command prompt should work as well in
> > pseudo console. Therefore, there is nothing to be fixed.
>
>
> I am coming to the conclusion that your definition what is correct differs
> from my definition of what is correct.
>
> For me, it matters what users see. And what users actually see is the
> output of UTF-8 encoded text that is now interpreted via the default code
> page of their LCID, i.e. it is incorrect.
>
> Sure, you can argue all you want that those console applications are _all
> wrong_. _All of them_.
>
> In practice, that matters very little, as many users have
> `LANG=en_US.UTF-8` (meaning your patches force their console applications'
> output to be interpreted with code page 437) and therefore for those
> users, things looked fine before, and now they don't.
>
> Note that I am not talking about developers who develop said console
> applications. I am talking about users who use those console applications.
> In other words, I am talking about a vastly larger group of affected
> people.
>
> All of those people (or at least a substantial majority) will now have to
> be told to please disable Pseudo Console support in v3.2.0 because they
> would have to patch and rebuild those console applications that don't call
> `SetConsoleOutputCP()`, and that is certainly unreasonable to expect of
> the majority of users. Not even the `cmd /c chcp 65001` work-around (that
> helps with v3.1.7) will work with v3.2.0 when Pseudo Console support is
> enabled.


In the case where pseudo console is disabled, the patch I proposed in
https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2020q3/010548.html
will solve the issue. I mean apps which work correctly in cygwin 3.0.7
work in cygwin 3.2.0 as well with that patch.

OTOH, in the case where pseudo console is enabled, non-cygwin apps which
work correctly in command prompt, work in cygwin 3.2.0 as well.

It is enough for all, isn't it?

You may think that all non-cygwin apps which work in cygwin 3.0.7 must
work in cygwin 3.2.0 even when pseudo console is enabled, but it is
against the purpose of the pseudo console support. The goal of pseudo
console support is to make non-cygwin apps work as if it is executed in
command prompt.

By the way, you complained regarding garbled output of the program which
outputs UTF-8 string regardless of locale.
https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-developers/2020-August/011951.html
However, many Japanese programmers, for example, make programs which
output SJIS (CP932) string regardless of locale.

Why do you think the former must work while the latter deos not have to?
Is there any reasonable reason other than backward compatibility?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


