# Re: Problems with: Improvements to fork handling (2/5)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-29T08:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110529055851.GA32323@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110529055851.GA32323@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/18-31-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/29/08-00-00)

On Sat, May 28, 2011 at 09:37:49PM -0700, Daniel Colascione wrote:
> On 5/28/11 7:35 PM, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > On 28/05/2011 8:23 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sat, May 28, 2011 at 06:40:30PM -0400, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > > > On 28/05/2011 4:50 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > > On Wed, May 11, 2011 at 02:31:37PM -0400, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > > > > > This patch has the parent sort its dll list topologically by
> > > > > > dependencies. Previously, attempts to load a DLL_LOAD dll risked
> > > > > > pulling
> > > > > > in dependencies automatically, and the latter would then not benefit
> > > > > > from the code which "encourages" them to land in the right places. The
> > > > > > dependency tracking is achieved using a simple class which allows to
> > > > > > introspect a mapped dll image and pull out the dependencies it lists.
> > > > > > The code currently rebuilds the dependency list at every fork rather
> > > > > > than attempt to update it properly as modules are loaded and unloaded.
> > > > > > Note that the topsort optimization affects only cygwin dlls, so any
> > > > > > windows dlls which are pulled in dynamically (directly or indirectly)
> > > > > > will still impose the usual risk of address space clobbers.
> > > > >
> > > > > Bad news.
> > > > >
> > > > > I applied this patch and the one after it but then noticed that zsh
> > > > > started
> > > > > producing:  "bad address: " errors.
> > > > >
> > > > > path:4: bad address: /share/bin/dopath
> > > > > term:1: bad address: /bin/tee
> > > > >
> > > > > The errors disappear when I back this patch out.
> > > > >
> > > > > FWIW, I was running "zsh -l".  I have somewhat complicated
> > > > > .zshrc/.zlogin/.zshenv files.  I'll post them if needed.
> > > > >
> > > > > Until this is fixed, this patch and the subsequent ones which rely on
> > > > > it, can't go in.  I did commit this fix but it has been backed out now.
> > > >
> > > > Hmm. I also see bad address errors in bash sometimes. However, when I
> > > > searched through the cygwin mailing list archives I saw that other
> > > > people have reported this problem in the past [1], so I figured it was
> > > > some existing, sporadic issue rather than my patch...
> > > >
> > > > Could you tell me what a 'bad address' error is? I'd be happy to debug
> > > > this, but really don't know what kind of bug I'm hunting here, except
> > > > that it might be a problem wow64 and suspending threads [2]. Whatever
> > > > became of these bad address errors the last time(s) they cropped up? I
> > > > can't find any resolution with Google, at least.
> > >
> > > If I had any insight beyond "It works without the patch and it doesn't
> > > work with it" I would have shared it.
> >
> >
> > Let me rephrase a bit... The error happens too early in fork for gdb to
> > be any help, and I was hoping you could tell me what part(s) of cygwin
> > are capable of "raising" this error -- it seems to be a linux (not
> > Windows) flavor of error message, but the case-insensitive regexp
> > 'bad.address' does not match anything in the cygwin sources.
>
>
> The actual string is in strerror.c in newlib, which is why you didn't
> find it with a grep on winsup/cygwin.


It doesn't come from newlib.  If you grep "Bad address" in
winsup/cygwin/* you will see where it comes from.

I don't know why grep -i 'bad.address' didn't find anything but it
really is there.

> The error code is EFAULT.  There are 127 places in the cygwin1.dll
> where EFAULT can raised, according to grep '\bEFAULT\b' *.cc.  In most
> of them, EFAULT is raised after something called san has detected that
> to Windows raised an unexpected structured exception.  My hunch would
> be to look in spawn.cc first, in spawn_guts, but I haven't read your
> patch in enough detail to narrow the problem down further.  strace
> might be handy.


spawn.cc wasn't touched by the patch but I suppose something in the
modified fork code could affect a subsequent exec.

Anyway, I don't see any indication that the problem is too early for the
CYGWIN_DEBUG= trick to work.  See how-to-debug-cygwin.txt.

cgf


