# RE: sem_getvalue patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robb, Sam <sam.robb@timesys.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-07T09:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D848382FB72E249812901444C6BDB1D0AA179@exchange.timesys.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D848382FB72E249812901444C6BDB1D0AA179@exchange.timesys.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](09-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/07/09-37-00)

[original message was to cygwin@cygwin.com]

> With a little effort, I've managed to build a cygwin1.dll that exports
> sem_getvalue().  The version of cygwin1.dll that I built seems subtly
> hosed, though - while I can compile and run my test program from
> within a Windows cmd.exe shell, trying to run bash or ls (and probably
> a great many other things) hangs.


Here's the patch... fairly straightforward, if I've understood the SUS
spec for the function correctly :-/

As for the apparent hangs in bash/ls/etc. - well, perhaps it was my
patch, perhaps not, as I was building from latest cvs source.  Since
I can't find any documentation that indicates if a particular method
for adding an export to cygiwn.din needs to be followed, this patch
simply tacks sem_getvalue to the end of the list.

Thanks,

-Samrobb

winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog entry:

2002-06-06  Sam Robb <sam.robb@timesys.com>

	* pthread.cc (sem_getvalue): New function.
	* thread.cc (__sem_getvalue): Diito.
	* thread.h (__sem_getvalue): Ditto.
	* include/semaphore.h (sem_getvalue): Ditto.
	* posix.sgml: Add sem_getvalue to "Synchronization" section.
	* cygwin.din: Add symbol for sem_getvalue().

winsup/doc/ChangeLog entry:

2002-06-06  Sam Robb <sam.robb@timesys.com>

	* calls.texinfo: Remove 'unimplemented' tag from sem_getvalue.


---

**Attachments:**

- [sem_getvalue.changelog](sem_getvalue.changelog) (application)
- [sem_getvalue.diff](sem_getvalue.diff) (application)
