# Re: Patch 20040321 for audio recording with /dev/dsp (indented), test issues

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-03-23T11:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040323110933.GM17229@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040323110933.GM17229@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/21-15-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/03/23/11-09-00)

On Mar 22 21:47, Gerd Spalink wrote:
> >   [From now on, the tests make *no* sound]
> >
>
> This is correct, since the following are the tests for audio
> recording. They record whatever is at your currently
> selected analog audio source (could be MIC, LINE, CD),
> and silently ignore the recorded sound data.


Uh, ok, that makes sense.

> > I'm not quite sure about putting the testcase into the testsuite.
> > It's a good idea in general, but, well, I'm wondering if you'd
> > like to use the libltp framework for the testresults, perhaps?
> >
>
> I agree. The printed results will be unambiguous, so no more
> wondering about correctness or not.


Cool.

> Actually, I tried "indent" as distributed with cygwin, and it apparently
> did strange things to the C++ code, e.g. "delete[] foo;" became "delete[]foo;"
> I found also that the code in the class declarations looked worse than before.
> Do you have a special set of options that work better than the default for C++?


No, I don't.  I had a bit weird results, too, so I just tweaked some
lines by hand.  Chris, do you have a personally approved set of indent
options which give a useful result, perhaps?

> > Since that code makes you to the one and only audio code maintainer
> > for Cygwin, I'm wondering if you're also interested in maintaining
> > some audio application which makes use of this new Cygwin code,
> > as part of the Cygwin net distribution...
> >
>
> As far as my limited spare time allows...
> Which applications were you thinking of?


I have no idea!  I thought you would know one, given that you cared for
the dsp code in Cygwin.

I've applied your patch.  It will go into 1.5.10 already.

Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


