# Re: [PATCH v2 2/6] Cygwin: add ability to pass cwd to child process

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-03T17:11:35+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aGadp0iVfBrEKG9G@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aGadp0iVfBrEKG9G@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/23-43-48.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/03/15-11-35)

On Jul  2 10:55, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Wed, 2 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Weeeeell, as discussed in the other thread, and on second thought, maybe
> > this is the right spot to handle all the posix_spawn stuff.
> >
> > But then, it should be in it's own function.  And you don't need
> > moreinfo->cwdfd, because the entire set of actions requested by the
> > posix_spawn caller should run one at a time in that function, so
> > multiple chdir and fchdir actions may be required.
> >
> > I would also suggest to pimp cwdstuff::init() by adding an argument
> > which allows to say
>
>
> ... ?


Nothing to worry about.  This one was a thought I had before inspecting
the code in dll_crt0_1 and cwdstuff::init().  I just forgot to remove
it, sorry.

> > Eventually, this code snippet in dll_crt0_1 should probably look like
> > this:
> >
> > ```
> >   cygheap->cwd.init ();
> >   if (posix_spawn_actions_present)
> >     posix_spawn_run_child_actions (...);
> >
> > ```
> >
> > Regardless if posix_spawn chdir/fchdir file actions are present or not,
> > in the first place the cwd of the child is the parent's cwd.  The
> > posix_spawn chdir/fchdir file actions run afterwards.
>
>
>
> In https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-developers/2025-March/012733.html,
> you said
> > For posix_spawn without forking, this complicates matters.  For
> > instance, we don't want having to close FD_CLOEXEC handles in the
> > spawned child because that's a security problem.
>


I shouldn't blabber so much.

> FD_CLOEXEC sets handles as non-inherited at the Windows level, but for
> posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose is that still a security problem?


Probably not, as far as Cygwin children are concerned.

> Also, it is allowed to posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2 from a FD_CLOEXEC
> file descriptor, so the parent would have to go through all the file
> actions, work the (f)chdirs to know where to look for relative prog_arg,
> and check adddup2s for FD_CLOEXEC descriptors, set them to not-FD_CLOEXEC
> and record that they were for the child to know to close them (and put
> them back to FL_CLOEXEC after the spawn).  This is already a good part of
> the work being done in the parent in my patch.


I see the problem, but I have no idea how to workaround this problem.
That's what you get for free when doing the fork/exec twist.  I have
to (have time to) think about it.


Corinna


