# Re: [PATCH 1/3] Cygwin: testsuite: add a mingw test program to spawn

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-03T11:06:31-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [6ff55395-7a18-0995-7b16-7bf2e7655370@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/6ff55395-7a18-0995-7b16-7bf2e7655370@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/20-31-44.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/03/18-06-31)

On Thu, 3 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Jul  2 10:37, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On Wed, 2 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > > On Jun 30 10:11, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > On Mon, 30 Jun 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > On Jun 27 10:34, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > > > On Fri, 27 Jun 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > > On Jun 26 13:31, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > > > > > BTW, I noticed while editing mingw/Makefile.am, shouldn't cygload have
> > > > > > > > -Wl,--disable-high-entropy-va in LDFLAGS?
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > Why?
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > With high-entropy-va, it has been observed that the PEB, TEB and stack can
> > > > > > happen to overlap with the cygheap
> > > > > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2024-May/256000.html
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Yeah, but HEVA simply breaks fork.  We don't have to test this, because
> > > > > it won't work and we don't do it.  You can set the PE flag, but than
> > > > > you're on your own.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Outside of fork, is cygheap able to "relocate" in case the memory it would
> > > > like to occupy is already used?
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think so, without checking and, well, fixing every pointer usage
> > > potentially pointing into the cygheap.  Even fhandlers have pointers to
> > > fhandlers...
> > >
> >
> >
> > So shouldn't any user of the cygwin dll then need
> > -Wl,--disable-high-entropy-va to avoid the chance that Windows places its
> > structures where cygheap wants to be?
>
>
> -Wl,--disable-high-entropy-va isn't required because gcc doesn't enable
> it by default on Cygwin.
>
> If newer versions do, it's a bug in these gcc versions.


cygload is built in the mingw directory, with the mingw cross toolchain.


