# Re: [PATCH 4/5] Cygwin: add fast-path for posix_spawn(p)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-03T12:03:26-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [5e4ebc57-cedc-577f-264d-6cc68be6ee99@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5e4ebc57-cedc-577f-264d-6cc68be6ee99@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-59-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/03/19-03-26)

On Thu, 3 Jul 2025, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:

> On Thu, 3 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Jul  2 22:51, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Wed, 2 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > >
> > > > One problem is that you dup and open files in the parent, which are
> > > > supposed to be dup'ed and opened in the child.  That's ok for a native
> > > > child, because we can't just hook into the native child process as Linux'
> > > > clone3 call does.
> > > >
> > > > But generally it's not ok for Cygwin parent and child.  We have methods
> > > > in place to communicate to the child what its supposed to do at startup,
> > > > so we can do this right with a bit of tweaking, no?
> > > >
> > > > > It kind of sounds like what you are envisioning is pushing this to a lower
> > > > > level, potentially even re-architecting child_info_spawn and related
> > > > > startup code (I don't know if handle_spawn would necessarily encapsulate
> > > > > everything) in terms of posix_spawn's parameters.  I was not looking to
> > > > > get that deep into things.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I don't see this as a deeper level.  It's just the child side of the same
> > > > mechanism.  You're adding lots of code to make this work, but for Cygwin
> > > > processes it's just in the wrong spot.
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > I was thinking about this further this evening, and I think I found a flaw
> > > that couldn't be readily solved *without* processing the file actions in
> > > the parent.  We already know and agree that the parent must process the
> > > chdir and fchdir actions, in order to properly resolve relative path_args
> > > (and relative #!s for that matter).  However, fchdir takes a file
> > > descriptor, and the state of the file descriptors depends on the file
> > > actions before the fchdir.  Therefore, all file actions prior to an fchdir
> > > must be processed (or at least considered, probably through multiple
> > > passes of the singly-linked actions queue) in the parent.
> > >
> > > addopen (42, "dir", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> > > addfchdir (42)
> > > addclose (42)
> > > (therefore addopen needs to be considered)
> > >
> > > fd = open ("dir", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> > > addclose (fd)
> > > addfchdir (fd)
> > > needs to fail with EBADF (therefore addclose needs to be considered.)
> > >
> > > fd = open ("dir", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> > > fd2 = open ("dir2", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> > > adddup2 (fd2, fd)
> > > addfchdir (fd)
> > > needs to chdir to dir2, not dir (therefore dup2 needs to be considered)
> > >
> > > addchdir ("dir")
> > > addopen (42, "subdir", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> > > addfchdir (42)
> > > addclose (42)
> > > needs to chdir to dir/subdir (so chdir needs to be considered before open).
> >
> >
> > I see where you are coming from, but there's a twist.  The file actions
> > are *supposed* to run in the child.
> >
> > From the POSIX man page of posix_spawn_file_actions_addchdir:
> >
> > APPLICATION USAGE
> >
> > ```
> >   [...] all file actions are processed in sequence in the context of the
> >   child at a point where the child process is still single-threaded
> >
> >   [...]
> >
> >   File actions are performed in a new process created by posix_spawn()
> >   or posix_spawnp() in the same order that they were added to the file
> >   actions object.
> > ```
> >
>
>
> The docs I was reading use "as if", to allow implementations where the
> actions are not actually processed in the child.
>
> https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/functions/posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose.html
>
> > A spawn file actions object, when passed to posix_spawn() or
> > posix_spawnp(), shall specify how the set of open file descriptors in
> > the calling process is transformed into a set of potentially open file
> > descriptors for the spawned process. This transformation shall be as if
> > the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once, in the
> > context of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new process
> > image), in the order in which the actions were added to the object;
> > additionally, when the new process image is executed, any file
> > descriptor (from this new set) which has its FD_CLOEXEC flag set shall
> > be closed (see posix_spawn()).
> >
> > But, either way, performing these actions in the parent is a problem,
> > too.
> >
> > > What scenario would not work properly if the file actions were not done in
> > > the child?  The main thing I can think of is opening things under
> >
> >
> > How do you run, say,
> >
> >   addopen (42, "dir", O_SEARCH|O_DIRECTORY)
> >
> > without potentially disrupting the actions of another parallel thread,
> > just reading data from a file attached to fd 42?
>
>
> First, I wouldn't be rushing to optimize the case of file descriptors
> greater than 2, because I don't see that as a common case.  However, if
> necessary, I'd do it much the same way as for 0 through 2:
>
> hold the lock_process lock
> perform the open, and assign the returned file descriptor into a mapping
> of file descriptors for the child.
> for a Win32 child, implement the lpReserved2 used by msvcrt to specify
> the fd to handle mapping
> for a Cygwin child, change the stdin/stdout/stderr child_info_spawn to
> some mapping structure for move_fd operations to perform in handle_spawn.


I get the idea that "some mapping structure" in child_info_spawn could
just be the file actions and attributes from posix_spawn, and instead of
move_fd process the actions and attributes in handle_spawn.  Why I am
resisting this is that I don't want to have to do this twice: once in the
parent as I do now, which must continue to exist for win32 processes AND
to find the directory to which a relative program path is relative; and do
it again during Cygwin process startup.  I'm really struggling to see why
the added complexity of a special path for Cygwin children is necessary
here.


>
> >
> > How do you run
> >
> >   addfchdir (42)
> >
> > without disrupting another thread trying to open a file with relative
> > path?
>
>
> That's easy and already implemented: just keep track of a "cwd" file
> descriptor while processing the file actions, and use openat instead of
> open (and for a subsequent chdir use openat and use that as the "cwd" file
> descriptor).
>
> The posix doc I linked above gives these notes about why they can't be
> done in the parent:
>
> 3. It allows file opens that might otherwise fail or violate file
> ownership/access rights if executed by the parent process.
>
> Regarding 3. above, note that if the calling process needs to open one or
> more files for access by the spawned process, but has insufficient spare
> file descriptors, then the open action is necessary to allow the open() to
> occur in the context of the child process after other file descriptors
> have been closed (that must remain open in the parent).
>
> Additionally, if a parent is executed from a file having a "set-user-id"
> mode bit set and the POSIX_SPAWN_RESETIDS flag is set in the spawn
> attributes, a file created within the parent process will (possibly
> incorrectly) have the parent's effective user ID as its owner, whereas a
> file created via an open() action during posix_spawn() or posix_spawnp()
> will have the parent's real ID as its owner; and an open by the parent
> process may successfully open a file to which the real user should not
> have access or fail to open a file to which the real user should have
> access.
>
> Also, they say
> The standard developers had originally proposed using an array which
> specified the mapping of child file descriptors back to those of the
> parent. It was pointed out by the ballot group that it is not possible to
> reshuffle file descriptors arbitrarily in a library implementation of
> posix_spawn() or posix_spawnp() without provision for one or more spare
> file descriptor entries (which simply may not be available). Such an array
> requires that an implementation develop a complex strategy to achieve the
> desired mapping without inadvertently closing the wrong file descriptor at
> the wrong time.
>
>
> So it sounds like the main issue with my approach is when there are not
> enough available file descriptors in the parent.  I had not considered
> that at all...


Perhaps just fallback to the fork/exec if we get an ENFILE error?


