# Re: [Patch] Avoid duplicate names in /proc/registry (which may crash  find)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-12-05T22:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4939A9F7.1000400@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4939A9F7.1000400@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/20-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/12/05/22-24-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Dec  4 21:49, Christian Franke wrote:
>
> > Here is a simple approach to handle the duplicate key/value name problem in 
> > /proc/registry. A value is skipped if key with same name exists. Number of 
> > actual key existence checks are reduced by a simple hash table.
> >
> > ...
> >
>
>
> That looks like a quite neat idea to rectify this problem but, now that
> I think of it I'm wondering if this isn't a good starting point for
> a better solution as you proposed on the Cygwin list.
>
>


Yes, it is ... see below.


> So let's assume there's a key and a value with the same name. 
>
> The old implementation just ignored the problem.  Trying to access the
> value failed because the value was simply shadowed by the key.  `cat
> foo' returned "is a directory" or something.
>
> The now proposed solution hides the value instead.  There just isn't a
> value of that name anymore.  In the end, the result is the same.
> Accessing the value still doesn't work.
>
>


The hidden value also prevents that the key is scanned twice by find and ls.


> However, since these value were never accessible, doesn't that mean
> there is no backward compatibility problem if we actually change the
> name of the values instead to, say, foo.val?  That's what you proposed
> on the main list, right?
>
> Is the above line of thought correct?  If yes, together with your hash
> table it would be quite simle to implement this.  We would just have to
> think of a good value for ".val".  Unfortunately, there's no character
> disallowed in the registry names, not even a \0 :(
>
>


Yes, and \0 is reportedly used at least by some copy protection software.


> Maybe ".val" is already a good suffix?
>
>


I would prefer "%val" to avoid any extra encoding for names using 
".val". The "%" is already used as an escape char, so "%val" in a name 
would appear as "%25val"

With the attached patch, a duplicate name "foo" is handled as follows:

- readdir() returns the key as "foo" and the value as "foo%val".
- If the name is "foo%val", stat() and open() consider only the value "foo".

This keeps the names 'as is' if possible and allows access to the (very 
few) entries with duplicate names. The "%val" is at least somewhat 
self-explanatory.

Example:

$ ls -l 
/proc/registry/HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/SYSTEM/ControlSet001/Services/Eventlog/Security
...
dr--r-x--- 3 Administratoren SYSTEM   0 Mar 29  2005 Security
dr--r-x--- 3 Administratoren SYSTEM   0 Mar 29  2005 Security Account 
Manager
-r--r----- 1 Administratoren SYSTEM 168 Mar 29  2005 Security%val
...

Christian



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-1.7-registry-nodups-2.patch](cygwin-1.7-registry-nodups-2.patch) (text)
