# Re: mmap fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **Date** | 2024-12-19T20:01:04Z |
| **Message-ID** | [5ab5b7d9-903f-4bd4-82c0-1826de2520e3@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5ab5b7d9-903f-4bd4-82c0-1826de2520e3@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/17-16-16.thread.md#:~:text=2024/12/19/20-01-04)

On 19/12/2024 19:50, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 12/19/2024 12:27 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec 19 11:19, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > I've pushed the two modified commits to both main and cygwin-3_5-branch.
> > > When I pushed to main, I got back the following message from git:
> > >
> > > remote:  Committer: Ken Brown <kbrown@server2.sourceware.org>
> > > remote: Your name and email address were configured automatically based
> > > remote: on your username and hostname. Please check that they are 
> > > accurate.
> > > remote: You can suppress this message by setting them explicitly.
> > >
> > > I don't recall ever seeing this before, but it's been awhile since I've
> > > pushed to main.  Is this to be expected or did I do something wrong?  
> > > I do
> > > have my name and email address set in ~/.gitconfig:
> > >
> >
>

[...]
> Maybe this has something to do with the way scallywag is invoked to do a 
> build.  Jon, is the problem that I don't have a .gitconfig on 
> sourceware?  In any case, I'm inclined to ignore this unless someone 
> tells me I should fix it.


Yeah, the clue here is the "remote:".  All this is happening on sourceware.

The process of requesting a build from scallywag is kicked off by the 
post-receive hook on sourceware generating a commit for you in the 
cygwin packaging repository, updating the cygport. (See [1])

As you can see this commit has your automatically configured committer 
identity.

No cause for concern or alarm. Although, I'm not sure why this might 
have just started happening.


[1] 
https://cygwin.com/cgit/cygwin-packages/cygwin/commit/?id=ab13d52d5dbb293f3b7525dd9520de2b55854724



