# Re: fhandler_console

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-01T01:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010301101600.C874@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010301101600.C874@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/16/07-38-00-2.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/01/01-16-00)

On Wed, Feb 28, 2001 at 11:05:59PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Wednesday, 28 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:
>
> CV> On Wed, Feb 28, 2001 at 09:50:37PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> > > Wednesday, 28 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:
> > >
> > > CV> your patch seems to have some problems on the local console window
> > > CV> at least on W2K.
> > >
> > > CV> When I open a console window with
> > >
> > > CV> tcsh, CYGWIN=tty: Only the first line is used at all. The background
> > > CV>                   color of the prompt is correct, behind the cursor
> > > CV>                   it's inverted.
> > >
> > > CV> bash, CYGWIN=tty: The first line is inverted, no cursor, no interaction.
> > >
> > > CV> tcsh, CYGWIN=notty: Crash, ia message box tells me that an instruction
> > > CV>                     at address x61061d48 points to 0x00000068.
> > >
> > > CV> bash, CYGWIN=notty: Same behaviour as tcsh with CYGWIN=tty, really!
> > >
> > > CV> When I revert the patch to fhandler_console.cc, everything is ok.
> > >
> > > hmm.  i  cannot test in on win2k right now, but can you please test it
> > > with  attached terminfo entry? 
> >
>
>
> CV> No avail.
>
> > >  Would you mind sending me bash and tcsh rc  files?
> >
>
>
> CV> I'll send them with private email.
>
> tested  them  with  your  rc files, it still works ok. can you send me
> strace for first and/or second case?


Ok. With private mail.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


