# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: winlean.h: remove most of extended memory API

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2020-09-24T15:04:19+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ddeace5b-33a2-ed1f-5b30-0d33bfe61ca3@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ddeace5b-33a2-ed1f-5b30-0d33bfe61ca3@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/23-52-25.thread.md#:~:text=2020/09/24/14-04-19)

On 24/09/2020 00:52, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> This was added as a temporary measure in commit e18f7f99 because it
> wasn't yet in the mingw-w64 headers.  With one exception, it is now in
> the current release of the headers (version 8.0.0), so we don't need
> it in winlean.h.  The exception is that VirtualAlloc2 is only declared
> conditionally in <w32api/memoryapi.h>, so retain it in winlean.h.  Add


I assume it's conditional on the windows version targetted, but it might 
help to mention that in a comment.

> "WINAPI" to its declaration for consistency with the delaration in
> memoryapi.h.
>
> Also revert commit 3d136011, which was a related temporary workaround.


Looks good to me.

I think this isn't going work any more with older win32api, but we 
probably don't care about that.  It would perhaps be nice to explicitly 
complain about that (checking __MINGW64_VERSION_MAJOR somehow), rather 
than exploding incomprehensibly if the w32api is too old?

> In particular, I'd like to know if my handling of the 
> declaration of VirtualAlloc2 seems reasonable.  Among other things, I'm 
> puzzled by the apparent need to add WINAPI.  If it's really needed, I 
> don't know how the calls of that function could have worked before.  Can 
> anyone enlighten me?


I believe that WINAPI only does something (stdcall) on x86, so it might 
well be that it's never worked on Windows 10 =>1803 x86?



