# Re: ntsec odds and ends (cygcheck augmentation?)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **Date** | 2003-02-05T17:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0302051226520.25432-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0302051226520.25432-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-31-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/05/17-31-00)

On Wed, 5 Feb 2003, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:

> At 11:48 AM 2/5/2003 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > Pierre or Corinna,
> > Have either of you considered adding code to cygcheck to check for more
> > common ntsec "problems"?  At the very least, something along the lines
> > of "your username isn't in /etc/passwd" seems like it would be
> > worthwhile.
>
>
> Chris,
>
> I have though about that and actually have such a program. However it's
> a Cygwin program. The idea being that it should reproduce *exactly* the
> starting sequence of Cygwin, which has varied over the years. Keeping
> cygcheck up to date might be a pain
>
> In the patch I have just sent, the group name is set to "run mkpasswd"
> if the username is not in passwd, and it is "run mkgroup" if the user name
> is present but not his group.
> So that should be clearly visible in "id", and visible but truncated in
> "ls -l".


Pierre,

IMHO, "No entry" is a better name for such a situation ([ug]id==-1).  It
could then be documented in the FAQ.  Just my 2¢...

> I have also changed the default uid and gid to 400/401 when the names are
> missing, to make detection easy. It can then easily be done e.g. in
> /etc/profile or in sshd-user-config.
>
> The question of "Why is my HOME C:\ " could also be handled in /etc/profile.
> I was thinking of putting something like this in it:
> echo "Hello this is /etc/profile"
> echo "You are a new user and I will verify your configuration".
> echo "Delete these lines once everything is well".
> if [ $uid -eq 400 ]; then etc...
> echo "Your HOME is set to $HOME, the rules are 1).. 2).. 3).. 4).. "
>
> What do you think?
>
> Pierre


How about just "Warning: HOME set to 'C:\', check your /etc/passwd or the
value of HOME in the Windows environment"?  An advanced user (or one who
simply wants to set his home to 'C:\') should be able to just comment out
this warning from /etc/profile, right?
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

Oh, boy, virtual memory! Now I'm gonna make myself a really *big* RAMdisk!
  -- /usr/games/fortune


