# Re: ntsec odds and ends (cygcheck augmentation?)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **Date** | 2003-02-05T18:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030205132330.007f1a70@h00207811519c.ne.client2.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030205132330.007f1a70@h00207811519c.ne.client2.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/05/18-23-00)

At 12:31 PM 2/5/2003 -0500, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> Pierre,
>
> IMHO, "No entry" is a better name for such a situation ([ug]id==-1).  It
> could then be documented in the FAQ.  Just my 2¢...


Igor,

That's something else. ls -l print 65535 when the sid cannot be mapped 
to a uid/gid, which is NEVER the case for the current user. By the way, it
will now print ????????  (because 65535 would become 4294967295 (truncated
to 8 characters) when we move to uid32). 
We can change the ??????? to whatever people wish (it's in variables 
called "pretty_ls").

When the user is not in passwd, ls -l would print a special string in the 
group field. I would like something more precise than "No entry". 
To a new user "No entry" is not very alarming, nor very informative.
mkpasswd is proper to Cygwin, how can we best communicate its existence?

By the way, when we move to a new setup.exe, without passwd-grp.bat and
with a new passwd-gr.sh, the passwd problem will disappear but the HOME
issue will remain.

> How about just "Warning: HOME set to 'C:\', check your /etc/passwd or the
> value of HOME in the Windows environment"?  An advanced user (or one who
> simply wants to set his home to 'C:\') should be able to just comment out
> this warning from /etc/profile, right?


Right, that's the idea. When everything is fine the user should delete the
diagnostic code. Note however that we should check for more than c:\

Pierre


