# Re: [PATCH]: broken pipe

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-08-30T04:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040830042249.GA8900@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040830042249.GA8900@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/16-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/08/30/04-22-00)

On Sun, Aug 29, 2004 at 12:51:54PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> I have been investigation the broken pipe problem reported in
> <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2004-07/msg01120.html>
> Thanks to Errol for providing a simple test case, from which
> I wrote a C program with similar features.
>
> Once in many thousands fork will return 0 to the parent.
> The parent then thinks it is the child, closes the reader
> side of the pipe and starts writing to the pipe, causing its death.
> Meanwhile the child also writes to the pipe and dies of the same cause.
>
> There is a scenario that explains the above observations.
> Both the parent and the child try to create the child pinfo 
> simultaneously. The following sequence can occur:
> - child creates pinfo
> - parent opens pinfo
> - parent reads cygpid from pinfo (== 0)
> - child writes its cygpid
> The parent fork then returns 0.
>
> My solution is for the parent fork to return the cygpid calculated
> from the winpid.
> The test program is still running after 100,000 fork/exec/pipe,
> a longevity record. 


Wouldn't the below solve this problem more minimally?  It moves the
setting of forked_pid to after it is known that the pinfo structure
has been filled out.

> Two other comments:
> - there is still a race to create the pinfo. Hopefully all versions
> of Windows handle it properly. To be on the safe side, the parent could
> open (not create) the pinfo after the child's longjmp.
> - the parent copies myself->progname into the child. This seems
> duplicative, given that the child always sets progname from 
> GetModuleFileName in set_myself.


I'm not clear on why you think the race is a problem.  The end result
should be that the correct info is in the pinfo regardless.  It shouldn't
matter if CreateFileMapping or OpenFileMapping is called.

cgf

Index: fork.cc
===================================================================
RCS file: /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/fork.cc,v
retrieving revision 1.131
diff -u -p -r1.131 fork.cc
```diff
--- fork.cc	7 Mar 2004 04:57:47 -0000	1.131
+++ fork.cc	30 Aug 2004 04:17:17 -0000
@@ -514,8 +514,6 @@ fork_parent (HANDLE& hParent, dll *&firs
 
   int forked_pid;
 
-  forked_pid = forked->pid;
-
   /* Initialize things that are done later in dll_crt0_1 that aren't done
      for the forkee.  */
   strcpy (forked->progname, myself->progname);
@@ -552,6 +550,7 @@ fork_parent (HANDLE& hParent, dll *&firs
   if (!sync_with_child (pi, subproc_ready, true, "waiting for longjmp"))
     goto cleanup;
 
+  forked_pid = forked->pid;
   /* CHILD IS STOPPED */
   debug_printf ("child is alive (but stopped)");
 
```



