# Re: [PATCH v4 0/5] Fix stdio with app execution aliases (Microsoft Store applications)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-12-19T11:26:22+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20251219112622.2e3cc382e2eb9592c6d5d978@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20251219112622.2e3cc382e2eb9592c6d5d978@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/07-27-54.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/19/02-26-22)

On Thu, 18 Dec 2025 09:28:42 +0100 (CET)
Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> Hi Takashi,
>
> On Thu, 18 Dec 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:
>
> > When I introduced support
>
>
> Heh... That's what _I_ wrote ;-) All good, though, I appreciate your
> effort to combine your and my patches.
>
> > for executing Microsoft Store applications through their "app execution
> > aliases" (i.e. special reparse points installed into
> > %LOCALAPPDATA%\Microsoft\WindowsApps) in
> > https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/cover.1616428114.git.johannes.schindelin@gmx.de/,
> > I had missed that it failed to spawn the process with the correct
> > handles to the terminal, breaking interactive usage of, say, the Python
> > interpreter.
> >
> > This was later reported in
> > https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin/CAAM_cieBo_M76sqZMGgF+tXxswvT=jUHL_pShff+aRv9P1Eiug@mail.gmail.com/t/#u,
> > and also in https://github.com/python/pymanager/issues/210 (which was then
> > re-reported in
> > https://github.com/msys2/MSYS2-packages/issues/1943#issuecomment-3467583078).
> >
> > The root cause is that the is_console_app() function required quite a bit of
> > TLC, which this here patch series tries to provide.
> >
> > Changes since v2: (v3 skipped)
> >
> >  * Merge Takashi's v3 patch into Johaness's patch series.
> >  * is_conslle_app() returns true when error happens.
> >  * Implement new API path_conv::is_app_execution_alias().
> >  * To determine if the path is an app execution alias in is_console_app(),
> >    change argument of fhandler_termis::spawn_worker() and is_console_app()
> >    from const WCHAR * to path_conv &, so that is_app_execution_alias()
> >    can be called from is_console_app().
> >  * Resolve reparse point when the path is an app execution alias.
>
>
> I have reviewed these patches, and in particular love that you changed the
> default return value of `is_console_app()` to true, in particular with the
> added explanation in the commit message that it actually does not hurt GUI
> apps much at all.
>
> While I still think it would be better to split 5/5 into a patch that
> changes the function signature of `is_console_app()` and then a patch that
> adds special handling for app execution aliases, and while I still think
> that the commit message could be improved, at this point I do not want to
> force you to work on this even more than you already have, and therefore I
> would be okay with this patch series to be integrated as-is.


Thanks for reviewing. I'll submit v5 patch. Hopefully it can be GTG.

> I truly appreciate the effort you put into this.
>
> Thank you,
> Johannes


-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


