# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-16T15:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [419A1F7B.8D59A9C9@phumblet.no-ip.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/419A1F7B.8D59A9C9@phumblet.no-ip.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/16/15-41-00)



Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> On Sun, Nov 14, 2004 at 12:11:58AM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > When I get the code to a point that it can run configure, I'll do a
> > benchmark and see how bad this technique is.  If there is not a
> > noticeable degradation, I think I'll probably duplicate the scenario of
> > last year and checkin this revamp which, I believe will eliminate the
> > security problem that you were talking about.
>
>
> Well, my initial implementation was a little slower than 1.5.12, which
> was encouraging since there was still stuff that I could do to speed
> things up.  For instance, it occurred to me that all of the
> synchronization in spawn_guts and waitsig could go away (with one
> exception), so I got rid of it.
>
> And, things got a little slower.
>
> So, I realized that I could get rid of a thread synchronization problem
> by always putting the pinfo for the new process in an static array.
> This also eliminated the need to do anything other than send a signal
> when the child was stopped or terminated.
>
> I was getting pretty excited about all of the code that was disappearing
> until I ran the benchmark.
>
> Yep.  Things are *a lot* slower now.
>
> Time for bed and dreams about threads and processes...


I hope you had a great idea! 

FWIW, more than 64 processes can also be supported in the current framework
by starting one wait_subproc thread per 63 subprocesses.
The threads can probably all share the same events array (with
event[0] copied (or duplicated?) at 64, 128, ...), passing different
segments to WFMO. The threads would be started on demand, decreasing
the overhead in the usual case where a process does not fork.

It doesn't look complicated at all (pass an argument to the thread
to indicate its segment) , but it won't be as simple as having
one monitoring thread per subprocess and no reparenting.

Pierre


