# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-16T15:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041116155640.GA22397@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041116155640.GA22397@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/16/15-56-00)

On Tue, Nov 16, 2004 at 10:40:43AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Sun, Nov 14, 2004 at 12:11:58AM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > When I get the code to a point that it can run configure, I'll do a
> > > benchmark and see how bad this technique is.  If there is not a
> > > noticeable degradation, I think I'll probably duplicate the scenario of
> > > last year and checkin this revamp which, I believe will eliminate the
> > > security problem that you were talking about.
> >
> >
> > Well, my initial implementation was a little slower than 1.5.12, which
> > was encouraging since there was still stuff that I could do to speed
> > things up.  For instance, it occurred to me that all of the
> > synchronization in spawn_guts and waitsig could go away (with one
> > exception), so I got rid of it.
> >
> > And, things got a little slower.
> >
> > So, I realized that I could get rid of a thread synchronization problem
> > by always putting the pinfo for the new process in an static array.
> > This also eliminated the need to do anything other than send a signal
> > when the child was stopped or terminated.
> >
> > I was getting pretty excited about all of the code that was disappearing
> > until I ran the benchmark.
> >
> > Yep.  Things are *a lot* slower now.
> >
> > Time for bed and dreams about threads and processes...
>
>
> I hope you had a great idea! 


I had a stupid thinko which caused a tight loop in the parent whenever a
process hadn't yet exited.  Eliminating that brings the performance back
to almost acceptable levels.

> FWIW, more than 64 processes can also be supported in the current
> framework by starting one wait_subproc thread per 63 subprocesses.


Yes, I know.  I think this is even what Microsoft suggests when you have
to wait for >64 objects.  I've thought about doing this from time to
time for years but I always thought that there had to be a better way.

> The threads can probably all share the same events array (with
> event[0] copied (or duplicated?) at 64, 128, ...), passing different
> segments to WFMO. The threads would be started on demand, decreasing
> the overhead in the usual case where a process does not fork.


wait_subproc is/was already started on demand.

> It doesn't look complicated at all (pass an argument to the thread
> to indicate its segment) , but it won't be as simple as having
> one monitoring thread per subprocess and no reparenting.


The simplification of the code from removing all of the reparenting
considerations is not something that I'm going to give up on easily.

cgf


