# Re: case-sensitiveness of environment problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | Christopher Faylor <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-04-17T09:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010417122239.A25694@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010417122239.A25694@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/23-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/04/17/09-22-00)

On Tue, Apr 17, 2001 at 06:39:09PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Tuesday, 17 April, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> > >  if cygwin environment contains both 'Path' and 'PATH', creating
> > > windows environment from it causes crash due to reallocating memory
> > > object which is externally referenced. this patch fixes that.
> > >
> > > i feel that we need a bit more tweaking with environment to deal with
> > > it case-insensitiveness under win32.
> >
>
>
> CF> I don't think that this is due to case insensitivity as much as someone
> CF> supplying a non-malloced PATH string.
>
> it is. suppose we have cygwin environment containing
>
> Path=/bin
> PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin:/home/user/bla/bla/bla


You're right.  I really should have looked at the code more closely.

I think we can solve this trivially by making getwinenv perform a
case-sensitive comparison, though, can't we?  I think it probably should
be case-sensitive anyway.

> CF> Your patch doesn't look right, since it is storing the environ string in
> CF> an alloca'ed buffer.  Since alloca is stack based, won't the buffer be
> CF> overwritten once the function returns?
>
> this buffer is temporary and used internally in winenv. all data is
> copied to 'envblock' later.


Sigh.  You're right again.  I use alloca a few lines below this.  Sorry
for the noise.

cgf


