# Re: [PATCH] pthread_key patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-10T19:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020711020610.GA17490@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020711020610.GA17490@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/23-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/10/19-06-00)

On Mon, Jul 08, 2002 at 09:38:07AM +0200, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
>
>
> On Fri, 5 Jul 2002, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Fri, Jul 05, 2002 at 08:50:21AM +0200, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
> > > If somebody is interested why if find this patch neccessary with a posix
> > > threaded gcc could read
> > > http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q2/msg00214.html
> >
> >
> > Can you summarize why you need to explicitly run destructors on process
> > detach?  It seems like this should happen automatically anyway.  I assume
> > that you're accessing thread-local storage on thread detach, so that's
> > why you need to do things then.  Process detach on the other hand...
> >
>
>
> This is pthread feature, i am not calling any of my own destructors.
>
> Pthread keys can have an additional destructor function that is called
> when the thread is terminated. The 2.95.3 gcc use this feature to free the
> thread specific exception context.
> In the actual pthread code these destructor functions are called in
> pthread_exit, but this works only for threads that have been created
> pthread_create, but not with CreateThread. IMHO cygwin should support both
> ways.
>
> The reason why i have added it to PROCESS_DETACH too is that the last
> terminating thread is detached in PROCESS_DETACH, not in THREAD_DETACH.


Ok.  Got it.  I thought that you were using standard c++ constructors.
I apologize for not checking more closely.

I'll let Robert comment on the efficacy of this patch.

cgf


