# Re: Merge pseudo-reloc-v2 support from mingw/pseudo-reloc.c

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Charles Wilson <cygwin@cwilson.fastmail.fm> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-07T00:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ACBDD83.6080307@cwilson.fastmail.fm](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ACBDD83.6080307@cwilson.fastmail.fm) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/23-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/07/00-15-00)

> On Tue, Oct 06, 2009 at 07:53:54PM -0400, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > Hence, three separate "entries". One question: when it comes time to
> > commit this to CVS, should it be done all in one lump, or 1-2-3 very
> > quick separate commits (even though the tree would be broken between,
> > say, #1 and #2)?
>
>
> I don't see why you shouldn't check in everything together since it's
> all one "change set". It's not like you could just back out Kai's changes
> individually and still get a working cygwin, right?


Correct. You really need all three bits for a working solution.
(Although the ChangeLog as I posted it is in traditional reverse-order.
Kai's bits would go first, then my changes to pseudo-reloc.c, and last
my changes to the other files).

I just figured it made sense to split up the ChangeLog, because I didn't
want to take credit for Kai's changes, but I did want to document what I
did, beyond the mingw/ version (which should make it easier when I
submit THOSE changes back to the mingw folks).  Furthermore, I figure
somebody might scan the ChangeLog looking for people without a Red Hat
copyright assignment, and get nervous if they saw:

date  Charles Wilson  <...>  <<--- has assignment
```
      Kai Teitz  <...>       <<--- no assignment (?)

      A bunch of changes

```

The way I split the ChangeLog up, it is clear that Kai only touched the
public domain file.

Anyway, once I had split up the ChangeLog, I simply wondered if I should
/also/ split up the commits.  If you're happy with one-big-lump, so am I
-- that's easier.

But I think the ChangeLog should remain 'segregated' like I posted it.

--
Chuck


