# Re: Merge pseudo-reloc-v2 support from mingw/pseudo-reloc.c

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-07T03:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091007030342.GA13923@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091007030342.GA13923@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/23-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/07/03-04-00)

On Tue, Oct 06, 2009 at 08:14:59PM -0400, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > On Tue, Oct 06, 2009 at 07:53:54PM -0400, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > > Hence, three separate "entries". One question: when it comes time to
> > > commit this to CVS, should it be done all in one lump, or 1-2-3 very
> > > quick separate commits (even though the tree would be broken between,
> > > say, #1 and #2)?
> >
> >
> > I don't see why you shouldn't check in everything together since it's
> > all one "change set". It's not like you could just back out Kai's changes
> > individually and still get a working cygwin, right?
>
>
> Correct. You really need all three bits for a working solution.
> (Although the ChangeLog as I posted it is in traditional reverse-order.
> Kai's bits would go first, then my changes to pseudo-reloc.c, and last
> my changes to the other files).
>
> I just figured it made sense to split up the ChangeLog, because I didn't
> want to take credit for Kai's changes, but I did want to document what I
> did, beyond the mingw/ version (which should make it easier when I
> submit THOSE changes back to the mingw folks).  Furthermore, I figure
> somebody might scan the ChangeLog looking for people without a Red Hat
> copyright assignment, and get nervous if they saw:
>
> date  Charles Wilson  <...>  <<--- has assignment
> ```
>      Kai Teitz  <...>       <<--- no assignment (?)
>
>      A bunch of changes
>
> ```
>
> The way I split the ChangeLog up, it is clear that Kai only touched the
> public domain file.
>
> Anyway, once I had split up the ChangeLog, I simply wondered if I should
> /also/ split up the commits.  If you're happy with one-big-lump, so am I
> -- that's easier.


I think this one is Corinna's call.

cgf


