# Re: [PATCH]: Still stripping

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-23T20:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041223200545.GL13179@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041223200545.GL13179@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/23/20-04-00)

On Thu, Dec 23, 2004 at 02:51:34PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Thu, Dec 23, 2004 at 11:42:15AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > In a case such as "abc..exe", the posix_path "abc." should not be
> > > stripped. The patch below only strips the posix path if the win32
> > > path was stripped. I don't think that the posix path can be empty
> > > in that case.
> > >
> > > 2004-12-23  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > >
> > >       * path.h (path_conv::set_normalized_path): Add second argument.
> > >       * path.cc (path_conv::check): Declare, set and use "strip_tail".
> > >       (path_conv::set_normalized_path): Add and use second argument,
> > >       replacing all tail stripping tests.
> > >
> >
> >
> > I'm not sure that your assumption of dot stripping is true in the first
> > case of set_normalized_path in build_fh_dev in dtable.cc.  
>
>
> Not sure I understand what you mean.  At any rate there are two cases
> where build_fh_dev is called with a non-empty second argument:
> handler_tty.cc: console = (fhandler_console *) build_fh_dev
> (*console_dev, "/dev/ttym");
> path.cc: fhandler_virtual *fh = (fhandler_virtual *) build_fh_dev (dev, path_copy);
> Neither is about a disk path.


True, but there was at least a brief time when "ls /proc/cpuinfo."
worked.  So this would be a reversion from the past two releases of
cygwin.  Maybe it doesn't matter and, it seems like generically
stripping paths in build_fh_dev will not work anyway.  So, I guess we'll
just have to make sure that people are aware of this reversion.

cgf


