# RE: [PATCH] Setup.exe "other URL" functionality

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gary R. Van Sickle <g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-12-28T04:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011228042200.kGewaOGyXNOF-2Zl6lmCvinH2_5Z6oJiFAOorUFmHVg@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011228042200.kGewaOGyXNOF-2Zl6lmCvinH2_5Z6oJiFAOorUFmHVg@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/09/04-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/12/28/04-22-00)

> Thanks. BTW: If you can identify what made that huge patch (my money is
> on indent 2.2.7 inserting ^M's)'s that would be handy.
>
> Rob


It's highly bizarre, but AFAICT it's not indent but rather something wrong with
"cvs diff".  Here's my investigation so far, I'm on all text mounts:

Experiment 1:
- mv my altered, indented "window.h" to "window.h.temp".  A hex editor shows it
to have the correct CRLF line endings (i.e. no extra CRs or something like
that).
- do a clean checkout of cvs's window.h.  The file on my system also shows
correct CRLF line ends.
- A "cvs diff" on the clean, just-checked-out source shows no differences.
- Do a "diff window.h window.h.temp" (not "cvs diff").  Shows only the actual
changes, not the entire file as being different.
- Replace the unaltered "window.h" with my "window.h.temp", and the "cvs
diff -pu" shows every line of the file to be different.
- Run "d2u" on my local "window.h", which is now the altered one.  "cvs
diff -pu" *still* shows every line to be different!  (so does a plain "cvs
diff", no -pu).

Experiment 2:
- Take a clean window.h, mv it to a new name, indent.
- Recheck out a clean window.h.
- Both show the same valid CRLF line endings.
- "cvs diff", every line is different.  "diff", nothing is different (even
though two lines are in fact indented differently - I thought you had to
"diff -b" to ignore WS changes?).

So I guess I'm out of WAGes now, unless cvs is tracking the file-moving and
claiming that a file with, say, the same contents but a different creation date
or something is completely different, regardless of contents.  But I don't think
that would explain the initial problem because I never moved any files.

--
Gary R. Van Sickle
Brewer.  Patriot.


