# Re: [PATCH] Ensure that the default ACL contains the standard entries

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-12-15T18:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20101215141149.GW10566@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20101215141149.GW10566@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/20-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/12/15/18-47-00)

On Dec 14 22:22, Christian Franke wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Christian,
> >
> > On Dec 10 23:05, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > The ACL from Cygwin always contains the three (USER|GROUP|OTHER)_OBJ
> > > entries. It might be existing practice elsewhere to return these
> > > entries also in the default ACL. The attached patch adds these
> > > entries with empty permissions if necessary.
> > >
> > > The patch would fix this rsync issue:
> > > http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2010-11/msg00429.html
> > >
> > > The logic for DEF_CLASS_OBJ is unchanged.
> >
> >
> > This looks good, except that the faked default entries for group and
> > other are set to 0.  That's rather unexpected. ...
> >
> > This is rather easy to fix (and you added comments in that place), ...
>
>
> New patch attached.


Thanks, applied.

> > I'm not entirely sure yet, but maybe the acl function should not
> > fake these default entries.  From my POV it seems a better approach
> > if acl(SETACL) actually creates these entries if *any* default entry
> > is in the incoming acl.  And, it should create these entries with
> > useful permission values.  This seems to reflect the Linux behaviour
> > much closer.  What do you think?
>
>
> AFIAK a minimal ACL must contain the three entries u/g/o which are
> equivalent to the mode permission bits. The default ACL has likely
> the same requirement.


Apparently yes.  I just tested this on Linux and Solaris.  On Linux
the missing entries are added with default values, on Solaris 10
you are required to enter at least the three default o/g/u entries,
otherwise setfacl prints an error message

 "Missing user/group owner, other, mask entry"

> If this is the case, then I would suggest to do both:
>
> 1. Fake these entries in acl(GETACL) if required. This would ensure
> that the default ACL is complete even if the Windows ACL was not
> created by Cygwin.
>
> 2. Create these entries in acl(SETACL) if required. This would
> ensure that the following reasonable requirement holds if the
> Windows ACL was created by Cygwin before:
>
> - "getfacl foo | setfacl -f - foo" should not change the (Windows)
> ACL of "foo".


Ok, fine with me.

> >   Would you implement this?
>
>
> Yes, but may take some time.


No worries.  We won't release 1.7.8 before January.

> > Btw., while testing your patch I found a bug in setfacl which disallowed
> > to delete user/group-specific default entries.  I opted for rewriting the
> > function which examines an incoming acl entry (getaclentry).  Would you
> > mind to test this bit, too?  The new code accepts a trailing colon, but
> > I think that's ok.  The SGI setfacl tool used on Linux is even more
> > relaxed syntax-wise and also accepts trailing colons.
>
>
> I've done a few test, looks good.


Thank you!

> An unrelated issue found during testing:
>
> mkdir() may duplicate Windows ACL entries. Testcase (German XP SP3):
> [...]
> Problem in security.cc:alloc_sd() ?


Indeed.  Thanks for the report.  I fixed that in CVS, hopefully.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


