# Add/remove program options [Was Re: cygwin-ENV-Variable]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-08T13:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0208081556280.8607-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0208081556280.8607-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/08/13-06-00)

On Sun, 4 Aug 2002, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Sun, Aug 04, 2002 at 09:01:26PM +0200, Sven K?hler wrote:
> > i realized that enigmail doesn't pass the CYGWIN-Variable to gpg when
> > executing. could you imagine chaning the ENV-Variable into a Reg-Key!?
>
>
> There is already an undocumented way to do this in cygwin via the
> Program Options registry key.  Create a new key:
>
> HKLM\SOFTWARE\Cygnus Solutions\Cygwin\Program Options
>
> under this, you can create an string entry named "default" with data
> containing CYGWIN environment variable options.  If you add an "export"
> option to the end of the data values, a CYGWIN environment variable will
> be regenerated from the registry and visible in the environment.
>
> You can also set options for individual programs by adding an entry like:
>
> Name                    Type            Data
> c:\usr\sbin\inetd.exe   REG_SZ          tty export
>
> That will make cygwin always set the cygwin option to tty and export
> a CYGWIN=tty for every program that inetd invokes.
>
> The main reason this this is not documented is that there is no
> programmatic way to manipulate it and I am not comfortable with telling
> people how to edit the registry "by hand".
>
> However, if you are familiar with the registry, then setting this value
> should not be a big deal.


Hi,
I've whipped up a small script (attached) to add and remove the values for
individual program options.  The script is named cygtweak (courtesy Robert
Collins), but should probably be renamed.  The help should be reasonably
comprehensive.

I'm not sure if this qualifies as a patch, but I think this got overlooked
on the cygwin mailing list, so I'm re-sending it here.  If this is a wrong
place for it, please let me know.  Where and how does one submit new
programs, anyway?  Do they need a ChangeLog entry?
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

It took the computational power of three Commodore 64s to fly to the moon.
It takes a 486 to run Windows 95.  Something is wrong here. -- SC sig file



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygtweak](cygtweak) (text)
