# [PATCH]: Export argz/envz functions

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-07-27T23:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3F246153.3020504@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3F246153.3020504@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](23-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/07/27/23-36-00)

For the last 8 months, I've been running a dll with these functions 
exported.  I've recompiled some gnu apps which utilize these functions, 
such as binutils/libtool and have experienced no adverse side-effects. 
It does mean, however that we decrease code bloat in the apps which link 
to the dll and increase code-sharing, which is good thing.

Here's a quick description of what they are and a link to the relevant 
man pages:

"An argz vector is a pointer to a character buffer together with a 
length. The intended interpretation of the character buffer is array of 
strings, where the strings are separated by NUL bytes. If the length is 
nonzero, the last byte of the buffer must be a NUL."

"An envz vector is a special argz vector, namely one where the strings 
have the form "name=value". Everything after the first '=' is considered 
to be the value. If there is no '=', the value is taken to be NULL. 
(While the value in case of a trailing '=' is the empty string "".) "

http://www.gnu.org/manual/glibc-2.2.5/html_node/Argz-Functions.html
http://www.gnu.org/manual/glibc-2.2.5/html_node/Envz-Functions.html

Since no-one bothered to document the functions for the newlib manual, I 
suggest that we just add the relevant manpages from the linux manpages 
project, since the implementation is compatible.  I'll see about 
contributing proper source documentation in the future so that they get 
documented in the newlib info pages.

So as you've probably gathered, these functions are an invention of 
Glibc, but they have been ported to BSD.  They are also used in quite a 
few gnu packages, if available on the host system.  I find them useful 
and good for glibc interoperability, costing very little in terms of 
overhead.

I was required to make the symbol alias because some configure programs 
look for functions with a "__" prefix, others look for functions without 
the prefix.  Either way, it seems relatively innocuous to make the 
alias, so that's the reasoning behind that.

Can this be considered for last-minute submission to 1.5.1?  Thanks!

Cheers,
Nicholas

BTW- I have ported some more widechar (wcsxfrm) and common functions 
(i.e. basename & dirname) to newlib, and will submit these patches once 
my copyright assignment is processed.


---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog.txt](ChangeLog.txt) (text)
- [export-arg-env-z.patch](export-arg-env-z.patch) (text)
