# Re: [PATCH] fix build warnings for functions without return value

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-07-29T05:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100729055053.GA18655@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100729055053.GA18655@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../28/21-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/07/29/05-51-00)

On Wed, Jul 28, 2010 at 04:19:22PM -0700, Daniel Colascione wrote:
> > From: cygwin-patches-owner
> >
> > I don't see why this is needed.  Cygwin uses -Werror by default so, if
> > gcc 4.3.4 emitted warnings we wouldn't be able to build a release or
> > make a snapshot.
>
>
> It's because Cygwin uses -Werror that I had to patch the source.  I'm
> compiling with '-Os -march=native',


That's prolly something you should have mentioned initially.  It would
have shortened this conversation.

If this really is a problem then it seems like the right way to fix it
is with __attribute__ ((noreturn)).  I'll check in a fix to do that.

> which must tickle a different part of the optimizer and thereby produce
> this warning.  (One of the nice things about clang is reportedly that
> it produces the same warnings no matter what the optimizer does.)


Sorry but this seems like a non-sequitur.  clang doesn't seem pertinent
to this discussion.

> Besides, the current code is technically undefined and the patch
> removes that undefined behavior --- which could start producing
> warnings for the current build at any time.


I don't believe that the behavior of a while (1) or for (;;) is
undefined.  I suspect that when compiling with -O2 the compiler is
actually smart enough to figure out that the function doesn't return and
to avoid a warning.  So, I'd say it's equally possible that the -Os
behavior could be fixed.

cgf


