# Re: Allow to send SIGQUIT via Ctrl+BREAK (patch included)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-11-25T16:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20051125164139.GD8670@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20051125164139.GD8670@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/22-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/11/25/16-41-00)

On Fri, Nov 25, 2005 at 08:50:26AM +0100, Christian Franke wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > [...]
> > > Suggest to add some option to send SIGQUIT via ^BREAK.
> > >
> > > A simple patch is attached.
> > >
> > > It sends SIGQUIT on ^BREAK if both VINTR and VQUIT are set to ^C.  As
> >
>
> a
> > > positive side effect, this disables any other SIGQUIT key in termios.
> >
> >
> > Sorry but the precedent of sending SIGINT when pressing CTRL-BREAK is
> > long-standing behavior that I am not comfortable changing.
>
>
> Agree.
>
> But the patch won't change this long standing-behavior unless the user
> opts-in via "stty quit ^C" (see testcase).
>
> So the patch shouldn't BREAK anything ;-)
>
> As an alternative, a new CYGWIN environment setting could be used.
> But using some termios setting for such an option is IMO the right thing
> to do.
>
> I missed the SIGQUIT via keyboard during the first port of smartd to
> Cygwin last year. In smartd's debug mode, SIGINT is used to reload
> configuration file, SIGQUIT to exit. This worked on every supported
> platform except Cygwin.


It is (or should be, since I haven't checked it recently) supported if you
set CYGWIN=tty, though.  There is a lot of functionality that isn't available
with the normal windows console that is available with CYGWIN=tty.  Since
the only precedent for the behavior of CTRL-BREAK is MSVCRT, I am very
reluctant to change it.

cgf


