# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Set ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT when disable_master_thread

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **Date** | 2026-03-07T09:23:15+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [70268126-9ef3-3f0e-776f-26a233c8db3a@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/70268126-9ef3-3f0e-776f-26a233c8db3a@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2025/07/01/08-37-35.thread.md#:~:text=2026/03/07/08-23-15)

Hi Brian,

On Thu, 18 Dec 2025, Brian Inglis wrote:

> On 2025-12-18 15:24, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2025-12-18 00:45, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > > If Cygwin were merely a personal project of yours, I would understand and
> > > probably agree.
> > >
> > > However, Cygwin is used (via the MSYS2 runtime) in Git for Windows, and by
> > > extension millions of users rely on it.
> > >
> > > Therefore, it would be good to at least publish those local tests.
> > > Ideally, a good deal of thought should be spent on figuring out a way to
> > > integrate the tests into the CI builds.
> > >
> > > You mentioned winsup/testsuite, and I do agree that it sounds more than
> > > just tricky to integrate the tests there. Essentially, you would probably
> > > end up reimplementing AutoHotKey's fundamental functionality: sending
> > > keystrokes and inspecting the results.
> > >
> > > Now, to be sure, running AutoHotKey-based tests is a lot more finicky than
> > > running winsup/testsuite. In the absence of any better idea, though, I
> > > would take the confidence from having tests over not having tests, any
> > > day. After all, you and I are both fully aware of the unfortunate pattern
> > > in the code under discussion where on multiple occasions, bug fixes
> > > introduced new bugs whose fixes introduced yet other bugs, etc ad nauseam.
> > > If AutoHotKey-based tests can help break that pattern, let's integrate
> > > them.
> >
> >
> > Who will port AHK to Cygwin tools to make it available as a package?
> >
> > Alternatively, do we really need to:
> >
> >      https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?t=9806
>


I do understand the concern, at the same time I do not see any good
alternative to AutoHotKey-based testing because constructing the exact
scenarios under which the bugs trigger _is_ difficult.

> Also, you can do a lot using read with -p prompt (example queries xterm info):
>
> 	read -s -t 1 -N 128 -p $'\E['"$p"'t' -d t r
>
> where $p are CSI query params in prompt, delimiter 't', reply $r.


While this works to replicate _some_ issues, note that in particular with
the pseudo console (and `disable_pcon`) quite a few bugs require careful
timing, which you simply cannot simulate using `read`.

Mind you, even with AutoHotKey it is often difficult to recreate buggy
scenarios in a reliable way. For the `Fix out-of-order keystrokes` patch
series I am iterating on right now, it took me four days to get to an
AutoHotKey-based test that would reliably reproduce the out-of-order bug.

Ciao,
Johannes


