# Re: gethostbyname() problem?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-02-07T15:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050207154509.GE19096@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050207154509.GE19096@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/23-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/02/07/15-45-00)

On Feb  7 10:37, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Feb 07, 2005 at 10:38:23AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb  7 01:13, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sun, Feb 06, 2005 at 09:53:48PM -0800, Yitzchak Scott-Thoennes wrote:
> > > > Reentrancy isn't actually required, but no reason not to do it.  I have
> > > > compiled net.cc but not done any other testing.  Did I mention that
> > > > dup_ent is really neat?
> > >
> > >
> > > Thank you.  That solved a few problems when I implemented it.
> > >
> > > You'd think it would have occurred to me that you could use it in this
> > > context.
> > >
> > > This is fine with me, if it is ok with Corinna.
> >
> >
> > I like it, but it's a bit over the border for a trivial patch.  I'd be
> > willing to let slip this through, though.  Yitzchak, any plans to send
> > a copyright assignment form to Red Hat?  That would be nice and would
> > keep me from further ticking off. ;-)
> >
> > However, CVS seems to be broken somehow.  I can't check it in.  Stay
> > tuned.
>
>
> I wanted to find out what was wrong with CVS, so I just tried checking this
> in.  I had no problems fortunately (or unfortunately, depending on how you
> look at it).


Weird.  No it works again.  When I tried it this morning, I got strange
messages (which I neither saved nor recall unfortunately).  I was unable
to access you latest patches and I was unable to checkout a fresh copy
of winsup.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


