# Re: patch to allow touch to work on HPFS (and others, maybe??)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Paulus <mark.paulus@mci.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2005-02-07T21:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [0IBK008D19EKWQ@pmismtp02.mcilink.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0IBK008D19EKWQ@pmismtp02.mcilink.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](21-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/02/07/21-37-00)

So, what it really seems to boil down to is 
for those filesystems that support doing timestamp 
updating via FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES (NTFS systems)
we should use FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES, and for those that
don't (HPFS, etc), they should use GENERIC_WRITE?

Unfortunately, during my brief perusal of MSDN, I didn't see
an easy way to determine the file system type.  

I also see from the message you quoted that ntsec comes 
into play, but I think it still goes back to the filesystem, since
I have ntsec set, and the touch works on my box (using NTFS,
on our PDS shares (also running NTFS, I assume), but not
on my OS2/HPFS box.

On Mon, 07 Feb 2005 18:19:25 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Feb  7 09:34, Mark Paulus wrote:
> > Attached is a patch that works to allow me to do a 
> > touch on my mounted HPFS filesystem.  I'm not sure
> > about clearcase, or others, but it works on HPFS and
> > NTFS. 
> >
> > 	* times.cc: Use GENERIC_WRITE instead of FILE_WRITE_ATTRIBUTES.
>
>
> That's reverting a more than three years old patch.  Please read
> http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2001-08/msg00666.html which explains why
> opening with GENERIC_WRITE is not generally a good idea.  If you want
> to get it working for HPFS or whatever, use the FS flags present in
> the local path_conv variable called win32 to conditionalize the call.
>
>
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Project Co-Leader          mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.





