# Re: Patch for line draw characters problem & screen scrolling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-05-21T17:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030521172450.GB5744@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030521172450.GB5744@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-32-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/05/21/17-25-00)

On Wed, May 21, 2003 at 01:06:36PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Wed, 21 May 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Wed, May 21, 2003 at 05:32:33PM +0200, Micha Nelissen wrote:
> > > Several problems encountered and tried to fix:
> > > * fhandler_console.cc (write_normal): end of buffer check enables cursor to be
> > > out of range; it better emulates *nix terminal behaviour; ie. it is now
> > > possible to write a single character at right bottom of console buffer without
> > > the console scrolling the buffer.
> >
> >
> > How is this similar to UNIX?  If I do a:
> >
> > sleep 5; echo hello
> >
> > and then scroll my xterm up, xterm scrolls down when hello is printed.  It
> > sounds like your patch would not cause this to happen.
>
>
> This behavior is controlled, at least in an xterm, by the "Scroll to
> Bottom on Tty Output" resource.  In the Windows console, no such control
> is available, and it does scroll to bottom on output (just verified that).
> I think that's what Micha is trying to fix...  Please correct me if I'm
> wrong.
>
> Micha, if the above is correct, you'll probably want to introduce some
> sort of control that will let users switch back and forth, according to
> their preferences.


Yep.  This is similar to the other "just jump to first line of scroll region"
change.  You can't change the default behavior like this without providing
a method for controlling it.  Maybe xterm has some sort of escape sequence
for controlling this behavior which could be emulated in cygwin.

FWIW, I *like* the scroll to bottom behavior.

cgf


