# Re: Patch for line draw characters problem & screen scrolling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Micha Nelissen <mdvpost@hotmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-05-21T17:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [BAY1-DAV30uFjc9QhVb00020b4b@hotmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/BAY1-DAV30uFjc9QhVb00020b4b@hotmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/05/21/17-22-00)

Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Wed, 21 May 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Wed, May 21, 2003 at 05:32:33PM +0200, Micha Nelissen wrote:
> > > * fhandler_console.cc (write_normal): end of buffer check enables
> > > cursor to be out of range; it better emulates *nix terminal
> > > behaviour; ie. it is now possible to write a single character at
> > > right bottom of console buffer without the console scrolling the
> > > buffer.
> >
> >
>
>
> This behavior is controlled, at least in an xterm, by the "Scroll to
> Bottom on Tty Output" resource.  In the Windows console, no such


We're getting all the scrolling confused. My explanation was not clear
enough.

Let me define terms as I see them:
- buffer: all data which the user is able to see with the use of the
scrollbar.
- window: data which the use is able to see without the use of the
scrollbar.

They are 2 types of scrolling:
1) using the scrollbar to change the current window position in the buffer
2) when you write at the last line of the buffer and the cursor 'wraps',
then we need a new line to write next output.

I am referring to the second type of scrolling. When a character is written
in the very right bottom 'cell', then windows *immediately* 'scrolls' (2) to
the next line. I don't want that. *nix behaviour (as I saw it) only scrolls
if *another* character is written. So temporarily the cursor is
'out-of-range' ie. outside the buffer. If another character is written
*without* moving the cursor, then *and only then* all output is moved up.

BTW: you will receive a new set of patches, replacing this one large patch,
later. I will hopefully clear up the other issues when I send those.

Hope this clears it up,

Micha.


