# Re: [PATCH] Setup.exe in a property sheet

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Gary R. Van Sickle <g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net>, cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-11-07T05:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [023601c18857$c37d36e0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/023601c18857$c37d36e0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/07/05-11-00)

Ok, first glance:

You've diffed across versions - please update both the clean dir and
your working dir for the next patch. Thats a major reason the patch is
so big.

* please use win32 thread API calls, not _beginthread et al.
* All classes with an explicit destructor need copy constructors and
operator =. (If they aren't used, declare but don't implement). Reason:
synthesised copy constructors and assignment operators will be wrong.
(And yes, this is wrong elsewhere in setup too).
* varargs and C++ don't mix from what I'm told. (because objects passed
in lose information). It's probably ok for your string class... but I'm
not sure why it exists?
```
* To test if something is not needed, comment it out and see if you get
link errors.
* have you run this through indent?
* the #if 0...#endifs should go. Delete the code or document why it's
```

not deleted.
* I don't like the PropertyPage semnatics - Why is Create not the
constructor?
* The propertysheet/propertypage friend relationship would be good to
have correct.
* please keep CVSID's in source files. They aren't used in the code, but
I find them useful for review.
* The ThreeBar refactoring seems incomplete - it is dependent on the end
user functions, rather than the other way around. It seems to me that
the ThreeBar refactor should implement/provide a control but not create
threads for the install process...
* I'd rather not see _any_ structs - use class's with all public members
if needed.
* is chooser.o going to be equivalent to choose.o? If so then just
fiddle choose.o please. I commit my changes quite frequently so we won't
collide much.

Lastly, I think it would be a good idea (if possible) to do the
refactoring bit-by-bit in future. i.e. factor in the Window class and
the threeline progress bar. Then the class conversion for the pages.
etc. That just reduces the risk of a huge commit.

Rob


