# Re: [PATCH] Update - Setup.exe property sheet patch, properly diffed.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Gary R. Van Sickle <g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net>, cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-11-07T21:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [071201c188e2$713045e0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/071201c188e2$713045e0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/07/21-11-00)


===
----- Original Message -----
From: "Gary R. Van Sickle" <g.r.vansickle@worldnet.att.net>
To: <cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com>
Sent: Wednesday, December 19, 2001 11:20 PM
Subject: RE: [PATCH] Update - Setup.exe property sheet patch, properly
diffed.
> > :lets assume that chooser will subsume choose, can you please make
>

the
> > changes direct to choose. (I don't really want a short lived
>

migration
> > file - it seems pointless). (remember - CVS is smart). If you think
> > there really will be two classes for this (other than the working
>

inside
> > classes) then leave it as is.
> >
>
>
> Like I said, I don't know what the answer to this one is.  I do know

that simply
> putting choose in the property sheet will make all the other pages

ridiculously
> huge (they all end up being the size of the biggest one), and is not

an option
> because of that.  If the sheet can be resized programmatically on

Win95 on, I
> can put it in and adjust it that way (which I think would be the best

solution),
> but if not we'll need the two sheets, one basically as a "filler" (as

I have it
> now).  But even if the first way is possible, we're talking

considerably more
> time and work.  What I've got now works at least as good as it did

before WRT
> the chooser, so I see no reason for this to hold up the rest of the

changes.
> And you've already taken me to task on the size and scope of this

patch ;-).

Ok. Well correct me if I'm wrong but the current chooser.h does the
following:
it's a property page of the main window
it call do_chooser.

That's it (high level). All I'm suggesting is that until we know that we
will need a separate chooser (ie we won't just move choose.cc's contents
to chooser.cc) lets just do those two things in choose.cc.

That way if we do need a separate file later, it's not a problem.

I'm not religious on this, which is why I passed the decision to you -
but it sounds like the jury is still out for you as well.

Rob


