# Re: [Patch] unlink

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-31T02:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041030223054.008277e0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041030223054.008277e0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/22-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/31/02-35-00)

At 01:39 PM 10/30/2004 -0400, you wrote:
> On Fri, Oct 29, 2004 at 06:01:51PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > Here is a patch that should allow unlink() to handle
> > nul etc.. on local disks.
> >
> > It's a cut and paste of Corinna's open on NT and the
> > existing CreateFile.
> >
> > It works on normal files. I haven't tested with the
> > special names because I forgot how to create them !
> > Feedback welcome.
> >
> > XXXXX This should NOT be applied in 1.5.12 XXXXXX
> >
> > Pierre
> >
> > 2004-10-29  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> >
> > 	* syscalls.cc (nt_delete): New function.
> > 	(unlink): Call nt_delete instead of CreateFile and remove
> > 	unreachable code.
>
>
> Corinna suggested something similar to me a couple of months ago but I
> wanted to wait for things to settle down somewhat after the original
> use of NtCreateFile.
>
> On reflection, however, wouldn't it be a little easier just to prepend
> the path being deleted with a: \\.\ so that "rm nul" would eventually
> translate to DeleteFile("\\.\c:\foo\null") (I'm not using true C
> backslash quoting here)?  I don't know if that would work on Windows 9x,
> though.


That would work on NT, but then one would need to check if the input
path didn't already have the form //./xx, worry about exceeding max 
pathlength, etc... The patch cleanly handles all of that, is symmetrical
to file creation, and is very efficient. I cleaned it up a little and
tested readonly hard links and other weird cases.
It's good to go but I still wouldn't include it in 1.5.12 if it's
coming out this weekend.

Pierre

2004-10-31  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* syscalls.cc (nt_delete): New function.
	(unlink): Call nt_delete instead of CreateFile and remove
	unreachable code.



---

**Attachments:**

- [ntdelete2.diff](ntdelete2.diff) (text)
