# Re: [Patch] unlink

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-31T03:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041031033651.GA12853@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041031033651.GA12853@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/22-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/31/03-36-00)

On Sat, Oct 30, 2004 at 10:30:54PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 01:39 PM 10/30/2004 -0400, you wrote:
> > On Fri, Oct 29, 2004 at 06:01:51PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > Here is a patch that should allow unlink() to handle
> > > nul etc.. on local disks.
> > >
> > > It's a cut and paste of Corinna's open on NT and the
> > > existing CreateFile.
> > >
> > > It works on normal files. I haven't tested with the
> > > special names because I forgot how to create them !
> > > Feedback welcome.
> > >
> > > XXXXX This should NOT be applied in 1.5.12 XXXXXX
> > >
> > > Pierre
> > >
> > > 2004-10-29  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > >
> > > 	* syscalls.cc (nt_delete): New function.
> > > 	(unlink): Call nt_delete instead of CreateFile and remove
> > > 	unreachable code.
> >
> >
> > Corinna suggested something similar to me a couple of months ago but I
> > wanted to wait for things to settle down somewhat after the original
> > use of NtCreateFile.
> >
> > On reflection, however, wouldn't it be a little easier just to prepend
> > the path being deleted with a: \\.\ so that "rm nul" would eventually
> > translate to DeleteFile("\\.\c:\foo\null") (I'm not using true C
> > backslash quoting here)?  I don't know if that would work on Windows 9x,
> > though.
>
>
> That would work on NT, but then one would need to check if the input
> path didn't already have the form //./xx, worry about exceeding max 
> pathlength, etc...


Other than being able to delete special filenames is there any other
benefit to using NtCreateFile to delete files?

If path length was an issue we could use '//?/' instead since the length
restriction is a lot larger there.  So, it would be something like:

```
  char *path;
  char newpath[strlen (win32_name) + 4] = "\\\\?\";
  if  (win32_name[0] != '\\')
      path = strcat (newpath, win32_name);
  else
      path = win32_name;

```

and then you'd use path throughout from then on.

We could use a technique like this for other things, like rename, to enable
it to manipulate accidentally-created special files.

OTOH, I just had an idea about how to use //?/ on NT so that we could
have longer path names.  I have to mull it over a little to see if it
would work or not, though.  I have an airplane trip tomorrow that would
be perfect for this kind of mulling.

cgf


