# Re: [Patch] unlink

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-10-31T15:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041031101448.0082c630@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041031101448.0082c630@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/22-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/10/31/15-19-00)

At 11:36 PM 10/30/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Oct 30, 2004 at 10:30:54PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 01:39 PM 10/30/2004 -0400, you wrote:
> > > On Fri, Oct 29, 2004 at 06:01:51PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > Here is a patch that should allow unlink() to handle
> > > > nul etc.. on local disks.
> > > >
> > > > It's a cut and paste of Corinna's open on NT and the
> > > > existing CreateFile.
> > > >
> > > > It works on normal files. I haven't tested with the
> > > > special names because I forgot how to create them !
> > > > Feedback welcome.
> > > >
> > > > XXXXX This should NOT be applied in 1.5.12 XXXXXX
> > > >
> > > > Pierre
> > > >
> > > > 2004-10-29  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>
> > > >
> > > > 	* syscalls.cc (nt_delete): New function.
> > > > 	(unlink): Call nt_delete instead of CreateFile and remove
> > > > 	unreachable code.
> > >
> > >
> > > Corinna suggested something similar to me a couple of months ago but I
> > > wanted to wait for things to settle down somewhat after the original
> > > use of NtCreateFile.
> > >
> > > On reflection, however, wouldn't it be a little easier just to prepend
> > > the path being deleted with a: \\.\ so that "rm nul" would eventually
> > > translate to DeleteFile("\\.\c:\foo\null") (I'm not using true C
> > > backslash quoting here)?  I don't know if that would work on Windows 9x,
> > > though.
> >
> >
> > That would work on NT, but then one would need to check if the input
> > path didn't already have the form //./xx, worry about exceeding max 
> > pathlength, etc...
>
>
> Other than being able to delete special filenames is there any other
> benefit to using NtCreateFile to delete files?


I can only think of speed. But I don't see a downside either, given that
we use it in open().

> If path length was an issue we could use '//?/' instead since the length
> restriction is a lot larger there.  So, it would be something like:
>
> ```
>  char *path;
>  char newpath[strlen (win32_name) + 4] = "\\\\?\";
>  if  (win32_name[0] != '\\')
>      path = strcat (newpath, win32_name);
>  else
>      path = win32_name;
>
> ```
>
> and then you'd use path throughout from then on.


Have you tried it? According to MSDN you need to use the Unicode version
if you do that.
<http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/fileio/base/createfile.asp>
"In the ANSI version of this function, the name is limited to MAX_PATH 
characters. To extend this limit to 32,767 wide characters, call the Unicode 
version of the function and prepend "\\?\" to the path"

Pierre


