# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Fix error return for madvise()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-07-07T12:32:56+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [3ba9b93f-5de2-a82e-5513-462f2eab8b41@t-online.de](https://lore.kernel.org/git/3ba9b93f-5de2-a82e-5513-462f2eab8b41@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/23-47-43.thread.md#:~:text=2026/07/07/10-32-56)

Hi,

Takashi Yano wrote:
> Hi Mark,
>
> On Tue, 7 Jul 2026 00:58:48 -0700
> Mark Geisert wrote:
> > Hi Takashi,
> >
> > On 7/6/2026 5:45 PM, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > ...
> > > I don't think we should change CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR value
> > > because the API itself is not changed. This patch fixes a bug
> > > in madvice() implementation.
> >
> > I went back and forth internally on whether the minor version should be
> > bumped.  One point was whether divorcing madvise() from posix_madvise()
> > in cygwin.din warranted an API bump: without a bump won't existing
> > programs be unable to access the new error return behavior?
>


Existing programs will call the new madvise() function. The existing 
DLLs provide a distinct symbol 'madvise' which will then arrive at the 
new function.


> >    Another
> > point was that the error return behavior of madvise() is being changed;
> > isn't that behavior part of the API?  I agree this is a bug fix but such
> > fixes could cause API changes.
>
> I could not found the case that API version bump for behavioral change
> in the past.
>
> The adding MACROs such as:
> ```
>    148: Add open(2) flags O_SYNC, O_RSYNC, O_DSYNC and O_DIRECT.
>    149: Add open(2) flag O_NOFOLLOW.
> ```
>
> could be a 'behavioral change', but header files for user were also
> changed in these cases.


For this change of the return value of nice(), no API bump was requested:
https://sourceware.org/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2024q4/013015.html

 From the point of view of officially released versions, it would be 
possibly sufficient if the first 3.7.* release will have a larger minor 
API version than any 3.6.* has or will have.


> > This is a case where I'd like to get input from other folks who might've
> > made similar changes to Cygwin over its long history.  I am totally OK
> > with removing the API bump in a v2 patch if that's the consensus opinion.
>


Two unrelated suggestions for a possible v2 patch:

- Add a note to winsup/cygwin/release/3.7.0

- Provide distinct 'syscall_printf()' for both functions: rename 'extern 
... posix_madvise()' to e.g. `static ... posix_madvise_worker()`, add 
two new 'extern ... *madvise()' functions calling it, move the 
'syscall_printf()' (which then also allows to remove the 'goto out').

-- 
Regards,
Christian



