# Re: [Patch] cygcheck: eprintf + display_error: Do /something/.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches mailing-list <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2004-12-17T06:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041217061932.GH26712@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041217061932.GH26712@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/17/06-18-00)

On Fri, Dec 17, 2004 at 04:33:10AM +0100, Bas van Gompel wrote:
> Op Thu, 16 Dec 2004 21:56:07 -0500 schreef Christopher Faylor
> in <20041217025607.GE26712@trixie.casa.cgf.cx>:
> :  On Fri, Dec 17, 2004 at 03:51:47AM +0100, Bas van Gompel wrote:
>
> [...]
>
> : > I seem to be making a mess here... The point is to have the error-messages
> : > appear at about the appropriate point in the output, not bunched together
> : > near the beginning or end. Here is another attempt. This time, do the
> : > flushing when both are ttys or neither are.
> :
> :   I still don't see the point.  There is no need to do explicit flushes if
> :  both stdout and stderr are ttys.  In the case of stdout the flush should
> :  occur every time there's a newline.  In the case of stderr, the flush
> :  should happen after every write.
>
> So, the test can exclude the case where both are ttys. (Did I say I was
> making a mess?) Here is a sample of ``cygcheck -s -v -r >cygcheck.out
> 2>&1'', when some (network) drives can not be read:
>
>
> ...
> zip                     2.3-6
> zlib                    1.2.2-1
> zsh                     4.2.0-2
> Use -h to see help about each section
> cygcheck: dump_sysinfo: GetVolumeInformation() failed: 5
> cygcheck: dump_sysinfo: GetVolumeInformation() failed: 5
>
>
> Another version of the ChangeLog-entry/patch:
>
> 2004-12-17  Bas van Gompel  <cygwin-patch.buzz@bavag.tmfweb.nl>
>
> 	* cygcheck.cc (eprintf): Flush stdout before, and stderr after output,
> 	when stdout and stderr both don't refer to ttys.
> 	(display_error): Use eprintf.


Ok.  I don't see any reason to check for ttyness, then.  If this is an issue
then lets just flush stdout prior to doing anything with stderr.  Flushing
stderr should always be a no-op.

Or, we could just make stdout always unbuffered.

cgf


