# Re: console: new mouse modes, request/response attempt

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-04-02T20:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20120402204044.GA13667@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20120402204044.GA13667@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/04/02/20-41-00)

On Mon, Apr 02, 2012 at 09:50:17PM +0200, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> Am 02.04.2012 20:50, schrieb Christopher Faylor:
> > On Mon, Apr 02, 2012 at 08:46:31PM +0200, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > This patch includes 2 things (to be fixed and separated anyway; change
> > > log still missing) for discussion:
> > > * mouse modes 6 and 15 (numeric mouse coordinates)
> > > * semi-fix for missing terminal status responses
> > > The fix tries to detect the proper fhandler for CONIO, which is then
> > > used to queue the response.
> > > Problem 1: I am not sure whether this detection is proper in all cases,
> > > what e.g. if /dev/tty is reopened etc. I don't know where else a
> > > relation between the handles for CONIN and CONOUT might be established.
> > > Problem 2: While the response reaches the application with this patch,
> > > only the first byte is read right-away. Further bytes are delayed until
> > > other input is becoming present (typing a key). This may (or may not) be
> > > related to other issues with select(), so maybe it's worth analyzing it.
> > >
> > > Thomas
> > > diff -rup sav/fhandler.h ./fhandler.h
> > > ```diff
> > > --- sav/fhandler.h	2012-04-01 19:46:04.000000000 +0200
> > > +++ ./fhandler.h	2012-04-02 15:47:22.385727000 +0200
> > > @@ -1282,8 +1282,11 @@ class dev_console
> > >
> > >    bool insert_mode;
> > >    int use_mouse;
> > > +  bool ext_mouse_mode6;
> > > +  bool ext_mouse_mode15;
> > >    bool use_focus;
> > >    bool raw_win32_keyboard_mode;
> > > +  fhandler_console * fh_tty;
> > >
> > >    inline UINT get_console_cp ();
> > >    DWORD con_to_str (char *d, int dlen, WCHAR w);
> > > diff -rup sav/fhandler_console.cc ./fhandler_console.cc
> > > --- sav/fhandler_console.cc	2012-04-02 00:28:55.000000000 +0200
> > > +++ ./fhandler_console.cc	2012-04-02 18:02:26.004016200 +0200
> > > @@ -139,6 +139,8 @@ fhandler_console::set_unit ()
> > >    if (shared_console_info)
> > >      {
> > >        fh_devices this_unit = dev ();
> > > +      if (this_unit == FH_TTY)
> > > +	dev_state.fh_tty = this;
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> > You *definitely* just can't squirrel away a pointer to a random fhandler
> > here.
>
> Not sure what exactly you mean. Is "== FH_TTY" a random selection? I 
> traced (again) that during setup of cygwin there are 80 fhandler objects 
> created. Only one of them matches this criteria (and none the others, 
> e.g. "== FH_CONIO". So I made a guess, and as I said, it works, kind of...


`this' is a pointer to a fhandler.  You can't just store it in a static
location and use it whenever you want later.  You have no idea how long
this fhandler will be around.  What happens if it's destroyed?

> > Do we really care about console mode that much now that mintty is the
> > default?
>
>
> Maybe not, but the fact that it works partially but subsequent
> characters are postponed resembles the other problem that I have just reported
> tocygwin@cygwin.com, which makes me wonder whether there is one common problem.
>
>
> Also when I originally tweaked the mouse code, I couldn't completely 
> understand the code in select.cc (only got it to work by pattern 
> matching code...). I did notice, however, that select and read were 
> inconsistent in the sense that an application having called select() 
> with a positive response may not be able to get a byte with a subsequent 
> read(), because criteria were re-evaluated and could have different 
> results (esp. in border cases). I did fix it by strictly applying the 
> same guard routine for both cases, but only for the mouse code branch.


If you have an example of actual failing code then please post it.

cgf


