# Re: load average calculation failing

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com>, Cygwin Patches <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2022-05-08T11:27:27+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [223aa826-7bf9-281a-aed8-e16349de5b96@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/223aa826-7bf9-281a-aed8-e16349de5b96@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-27-27.thread.md#:~:text=2022/05/08/10-27-27)

On 08/05/2022 08:01, Mark Geisert wrote:
> Mark Geisert wrote (on the main Cygwin mailing list):
> > I've recently noticed that the 'xload' I routinely run shows zero load 
> > even with compute-bound processes running.  This is on both Cygwin 
> > pre-3.4.0 as well as 3.3.4.  A test program, shown below, indicates 
> > that getloadavg() is returning with 0 status, i.e. not an error but no 
> > elems
> > of the passed-in array updated.
> >
> > Stepping with gdb through the test program seems weird within the 
> > loadavginfo::load_init method.  Single-stepping at line loadavg.cc:68 
> > goes to strace.h:52 and then to _sigbe ?!
> >
> > I had recently updated both Cygwin and Windows 10 to latest at the 
> > same time so I cannot say when the failure started.  Last day or two 
> > at most.
> >
>

[...]
>
> I've debugged a bit further..  Within Cygwin's loadavg.cc:load_init(), 
> the PdhOpenQueryW() call returns successfully.  The subsequent 
> PdhAddEnglishCounterW() call is unsuccessful.  It returns status 
> 0x800007D0 == PDH_CSTATUS_NO_MACHINE. The code (at line 68 mentioned 
> above) calls debug_printf() to conditionally display the error, which is 
> what leads to the strace.h and _sigbe; that's fine.
>
> The weird PDH_CSTATUS_NO_MACHINE is the problem.  I'll try running the 
> example from an elevated shell.  Or rebooting the machine.  After that 
> it's consulting some oracle TBD. :-(
>


Thanks for looking into this.
You can find the user space version of this code I initially wrote at 
https://github.com/jon-turney/windows-loadavg, which might save you some 
time.

I can't reproduce this on W10 21H1, so I think this must be due to some 
change in later Windows...



