# Re: [PATCH/QUESTION] newlib: fenv: AArch64 Cygwin linking fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Richard Earnshaw <Richard.Earnshaw@arm.com> |
| **To** | Radek Barton <radek.barton@microsoft.com>, Newlib <newlib@sourceware.org>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-06-24T10:51:13+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [fb268bfa-9b3f-4a58-bd0c-51afc9075e3b@arm.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/fb268bfa-9b3f-4a58-bd0c-51afc9075e3b@arm.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/11-31-06.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/24/09-51-13)

On 24/06/2025 09:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun 23 16:36, Richard Earnshaw (lists) wrote:
> > On 16/06/2025 12:31, Radek Barton wrote:
> > > Hello.
> > >
> > > This is more a question than patch submission: Without the attached changes, the Cygwin cannot be linked for AArch64 failing on:
> > > ```
> > > ld: cannot export _fe_nomask_env: symbol not defined
> > > ld: cannot export fedisableexcept: symbol not defined
> > > ld: cannot export fegetexcept: symbol not defined
> > > ld: cannot export fegetprec: symbol not defined
> > > ld: cannot export fesetprec: symbol not defined
> > > ```
> > > Can anybody share some insights why are those changes needed and whether there is a better way how to overcome this issue?
> > >
> > > Note that the `feenableexcept`, `fedisableexcept`, `fegetexcept` implementations are similarly defined in `newlib/libc/machine/mips/machine/fenv-fp.h` for MIPS architecture as well.
> > >
> > > Thank you,
> > >
> > > Radek
> > >
> >
> >
> > Ugh, this is a real rat's nest of code...
> >
> > I may be on completely the wrong track, but I think the clue is in the comment:
> >
> >   +/* We currently provide no external definitions of the functions below. */
> >
> > So it is expected that these functions have no definition in a file, but will be inlined into the calling code when needed.  This is why they are provided in fenv.h.  fenv-fp.h seems to be the internal header that is used for code that will create the non-inlined versions; the header file fenv-fp.h isn't exported from the library though (it's only used while building it), so anything defined there will never be inlined into user code.
> >
> > I suspect that the underlying issue is that coff libraries rely on
> > explicitly exporting symbols, while ELF libraries do that implicitly
> > (unless something is explicitly marked hidden).
>
>
> I wonder if this is really the issue, because binutils ld performs
> its auto-export magic for coff symbols for ages on Cygwin.  Unless
> you define exactly the symbols to export in a .def file, that is.
>
> However, Cygwin's .def file explicitly exports the above fe* symbols.
>
> They are just not actually present in the object files in case of the
> aarch64 build per Radek.
>
>
> > What I don't fully understand is what role __BSD_VISIBLE might have
> > here.  If that's not defined (which I'd think is possible in CYGWIN),
>
>
> Only for applications built under Cygwin, but not for building the Cygwin
> DLL itself, which is the problem here.
>
> > then I can't see how your changes would resolve this.
> >
> > I'm guessing (somewhat) that libm/.../fenv.c should perhaps define __BSD_VISIBLE before including fenv.h to force the inline functions to become visible.
> >
> > The other alternative might be to remove the list of functions scoped by the ifdef from libm/machine/aarch64/fenv.c so that the functions that file exports matches the comment I mentioned above.
> >
> > Perhaps you could try this patch instead of yours and let me know if it resolves the issue:
> >
> > ```diff
> > diff --git a/newlib/libm/machine/aarch64/fenv.c b/newlib/libm/machine/aarch64/fenv.c
> > index 3ffe23441..fb6a67dcc 100644
> > --- a/newlib/libm/machine/aarch64/fenv.c
> > +++ b/newlib/libm/machine/aarch64/fenv.c
> > @@ -27,6 +27,9 @@
> >    * $FreeBSD$
> >    */
> >   
> > +/* Enable all fenv-related functions.  */
> > +#define __BSD_VISIBLE
> > +
> >   #define        __fenv_static
> >   #include <fenv.h>
> >   #include <machine/fenv-fp.h>
> > ```
> >
>
>
> Worth a try.
>
>
> Thanks,
> Corinna
>


There's another possibility for what is going wrong here: that on cygwin 
we're somehow picking up the wrong implementation of sys/fenv.h.  For 
example there's a version in libc/include/sys that lacks the inline 
versions of functions that libc/machine/aarch64/sys provides.  If that 
is the case, it might simply be that cygwin is not being configured 
correctly to find the aarch64-specific headers.

I think it would be instructive to look at the pre-processed source of 
fenv.c to see exactly which headers are being used.

R.



