# Re: [PATCH 0/3] CI update

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-28T07:57:24-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [2abf7aa2-c926-8f7b-3f70-b508b33fe101@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2abf7aa2-c926-8f7b-3f70-b508b33fe101@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/21-04-06.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/28/13-57-24)

On 2020-08-28 02:43, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug 27 13:29, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2020-08-27 02:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Aug 26 22:04, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > Since we recently had the unpleasant surprise of discovering that Cygwin
> > > > doesn't build on F32 when trying to make a release, this adds some CI to
> > > > test that.
> > > >
> > > > Open issues: Since there don't seem to be RedHat packages for cocom, this
> > > > grabs a cocom package from some random 3rd party I found on the internet.
> > >
> >
> >
> > New official site V0.98 Unicode 8:
> >
> > 	https://github.com/dino-lang/dino/blob/master/cocom.spec
>
>
> Weird version numbering scheme.  Our cocom package is version 0.996.
> Is it safe to assume this stuff is newer then ours?


Same guy Vladimir Makarov and link from previous SF to current GH sources; not
seeing the earlier emphasis on Russian armaments, rather focus is on Dino
language; affiliation RedHat Toronto; GH INSTALL files all date from 20 years
ago; our CHANGES says Win32 support was removed in 2007 at the top, and that
agrees with GH ChangeLog, which continues up to 2019; closed Issue mentions he
changed to autotools for Cygwin and MacOSX between 2015 and 2016; switches email
from users.sf.net to gcc.gnu.org in 2016, and redhat.com briefly 2016 Mar, about
when he switched to GH.

There are few mentions of versions; preference on GH seems to be dates, latest
mainly 2016, regenerated configure, Makefile.in, aclocal.m4 across directories 9
months ago: although our file dates are 2015, that version 0.996 applies to
Ammunition from 2002; version mentions include above Ammunition v0.996,
Onigurama 6.0.0, Dino updates to .5 and .55, http://dino-lang.github.io/download
offers V0.97 with Dino 0.5, GH says V0.98 with Dino 0.55.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in IEC units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


