# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: Minor updates to load average calculations

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2024-11-21T02:35:01-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [0f3c12f6-0993-4d84-b7a9-b7919ba30a44@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0f3c12f6-0993-4d84-b7a9-b7919ba30a44@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/06-03-46.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/21/10-35-01)

Hi Jon,

On 11/18/2024 12:58 PM, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 13/11/2024 06:03, Mark Geisert wrote:
>
> Thanks very much for looking into this problem.
>
> Sorry about the inordinate time it's take for me to look at this.


No worries, I understand.

> > Commentary wording adjusted to say ProcessorQueueLength counts threads,
> > not processes.  Also mention (upcoming) new tool /bin/loadavg.  The
> > release note for Cygwin 3.5.5 is updated.
> >
> > In counting runnable threads, divide by NumberOfProcessors to model
> > distributing the threads among all processors.  Otherwise one gets e.g.
> > PQLs of 20 or more just running a few lively X applications.  These PQLs
> > vary greatly between kernel stats updates every 16ms, so are very clearly
> > short-term loads.  This change helps reduce jitter in load average
> > calculations.
>
>
> Hmm... I'm not sure what's right here.
>
> My original language is sloppy, as we are calculating the number of 
> active, and queued threads, not processes.
>
> But after your change, we're clearly adding two different measurements 
> together (active threads + queued processes), which doesn't seem right.


I was going to refer to them as apples and oranges, but ^U'd myself.

> I'd have to go back an look at what loadavg is supposed to measure, and 
> how it traditionally, and on linux, has worked.
>
> (on first thought, it seems unlikely that if you have an N-core system, 
> and a single process with N threads is occupying them all, that the 
> steady-state loadavg is 1, not N; but if you have N single-threaded 
> processes the steady-state loadavg is N...)


Good idea for the research.  I kind of intuitively ended up with the 
load average number meaning how many CPUs-worth of work is being done.

> > At end of load_init(), obtain and discard the first measure of the
> > counters to deal with the first call always returning error, no data.
> > Follow this with a short delay so the next measure actually has data to
> > report.
> >
> > At least one older version of Windows, i.e. Win10 Pro 21H1, has a 
> > different
>
>
> This is newer than the Windows version I initially wrote this on (in 
> 2017, gosh, so um... probably Windows 8.1 or an early Windows 10).
>
> So, um.. are you sure you've got the time-ordering correct here?
>
> OTOH, my original code still works on Win10 Home 22H2 here, so IDK 
> what's going on here.


Oh I don't claim that versions <=Q are different from >Q, just that I 
happen to have a machine with version Q and it's different.  I used 
SysInternals tool [I don't remember] to explore the namespace.

[...]
> > ```
> > +
> > +    /* Delay a short time so PdhCQD in caller will have data to 
> > collect */
> > +    Sleep (16/*ms*/); /* let other procs run; one|more yield()s not 
> > ```
> >
> > enough */
>
>
> These two comments seem in opposition to each other.
>
> It seems that the claim is we need to wait at least one scheduler tick 
> for the data to be valid (so more than 15ms)


But it is more than 15ms.  I don't understand.  (But Corinna convinced 
me in her review it should be 15ms rather than 16ms.  I will update.)

> >     }
> >     return initialized;
> > ```diff
> > @@ -101,24 +128,25 @@ static bool get_load (double *load)
> > ```
> >
> >     if (ret != ERROR_SUCCESS)
> >       return false;
> > -  /* Estimate the number of running processes as (NumberOfProcessors) 
> > * (%
> > -     Processor Time) */
> > ```
> > +  /* Estimate the number of running processes as
> > +     (NumberOfProcessors) * (% Processor Time) */
> > ```
> >
>
>
> I could do without rewrapping comments so I can more clearly see the 
> code changes, unless the claim is that this improves legibility.


Legibility it is.  Another reviewer barfed over the hanging "%" at EOL.

> >     PDH_FMT_COUNTERVALUE fmtvalue1;
> >     ret = PdhGetFormattedCounterValue (counter1, PDH_FMT_DOUBLE, NULL, 
> > &fmtvalue1);
> >     if (ret != ERROR_SUCCESS)
> >       return false;
> > -
> >     double running = fmtvalue1.doubleValue * wincap.cpu_count () / 100;
> > -  /* Estimate the number of runnable processes using 
> > ProcessorQueueLength */
> > -  PDH_FMT_COUNTERVALUE fmtvalue2;
> > ```
> > +  /* Estimate the number of runnable threads as
> > +     (ProcessorQueueLength) / (NumberOfProcessors) */
> > +  PDH_FMT_COUNTERVALUE fmtvalue2 = { 0 };
> >     ret = PdhGetFormattedCounterValue (counter2, PDH_FMT_LONG, NULL, 
> > ```
> >
> > &fmtvalue2);
> >     if (ret != ERROR_SUCCESS)
> > -    return false;
> > +    ; /* don't return false, just treat as if zero was read */
>
>
> "ignore any error accessing this counter, just treat as if zero was read"


OK, will update.

> > -  LONG rql = fmtvalue2.longValue;
> > +  /* Divide the runnable thread count among NumberOfProcessors */
> > +  double rql = (double) fmtvalue2.longValue / (double) 
> > wincap.cpu_count ();
> > -  *load = rql + running;
> > +  *load = running + rql;
>
>
> Um, I'm struggling to see what the effect is of this last change.


It puts the '+' operands in the same order they are calculated.  This is 
not a hillock I'm prepared to die on.  I'll revert it.
Thanks for the review,

..mark


