# Re: Create new files as sparse on NT systems. (2nd try)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-02-17T16:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030217164528.GA5837@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030217164528.GA5837@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/13-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/17/16-45-00)

On Mon, Feb 17, 2003 at 05:37:20PM +0100, Vaclav Haisman wrote:
> > UNIX has a method for producing sparse files.  If this is desired functionality,
> > Cygwin should mimic that not invent a new way of doing things.
> >
> > cgf
>
>
> Hi,
> I have prepared another patch that implements parse files for Cygwin. It is
> smaller and, I think, even better than the previous. No new CYGWIN options.
>
> I have also been searching internet for some informations abut sparse files in
> Unix systems. It seems that if OS and file system supports it then it supports
> it without any extra system call. Some systems (SunOS) have fcntl() command
> F_FREESP that is supposed to free allocated disk space. But all unices I have
> had look at only support such combination of parameters that the deallocated
> block of space is at the end of file. In this case it works as ftruncate(). If
> I should implement this fcntl() command such that it would be able to
> deallocate disk space in a middle of a file then I would be inventing
> something new.


This looks pretty good but the cygwin convention is to use wincap
settings for this kind of thing rather than using is_winnt.  So, please
add a wincap capability to accomplish this.

cgf

> 2003-02-17  Vaclav Haisman  <V.Haisman@sh.cvut.cz>
>
> 	* include/winioctl.h (FSCTL_SET_SPARSE): Define.
>
> 2003-02-17  Vaclav Haisman  <V.Haisman@sh.cvut.cz>
>
> 	* fhandler.h: Include winioctl.h for DeviceIoControl.
> 	(fhandler::open): Try to set newly created and truncated files as
> 	sparse on NT systems.



