# Re: raw email addresses and ChangeLog entries?

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Ford <Brian.Ford@flightsafety.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-02-17T21:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.58.0602171521380.1684@PC1163-8460-XP.flightsafety.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.58.0602171521380.1684@PC1163-8460-XP.flightsafety.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/17-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/02/17/21-23-00)

On Fri, 17 Feb 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 17 09:52, Brian Ford wrote:
> > On Fri, 17 Feb 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Feb 16 10:46, Jerry D. Hedden wrote:
> > >
> > > Would you please don't copy raw email addresses in your replies?
> > > http://cygwin.com/acronyms/#PCYMTNQREAIYR
> > >
> > > > 2006-02-16  Jerry D. Hedden  <jerry at hedden dot us>
> > >
> >
> >
> > I've always been confused about the above dichotomy.  Is it ok to obfuscate
> > ChangeLog email addresses?  Otherwise, what's the point of PCYMTNQREAIYR
> > requests in cygwin-patches?
>
>
> Dunno if I'm speaking for Chris here, too, but I usually send patches to
> other lists without the date/name/email header, for the simple reason
> that the date will change anyway to the date of checkin.  The name and
> email address is given in the mail header anyway, so why bother?


Sounds good.  I'm all for it if cgf agrees.

> As for quoting Jerry's email address again, I'm sorry that I didn't
> notice that, but I was actually talking about quoting *my* email address
> in the reply.  Just because this very email address is basically
> /dev/null doesn't mean that we shouldn't care, IMHO.


I understood that was your intent, and I wasn't objecting to you quoting
his email per se.  I was just questioning the practice of requiring them
on ChangeLog entries.

Thanks.

-- 
Brian Ford
Lead Realtime Software Engineer
VITAL - Visual Simulation Systems
FlightSafety International
the best safety device in any aircraft is a well-trained pilot...


