# Re: console enhancements: mouse events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-11-09T13:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091109133551.GA10130@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091109133551.GA10130@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/11/09/13-36-00)

On Nov  8 23:02, towo@towo.net wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen schrieb:
> > signed copyright assignment form (http://cygwin.com/assign.txt) in place.
>
> It's in the envelope.


Cool.

> > Open the console properties dialog and disable QuickEdit.
>
> I had checked the properties and nothing worked. QuickEdit enabled
> would disable mouse control for applications altogether; it is
> disabled so mouse click and move events can be processed but the
> mouse wheel still scrolls the window instead, on that machine.


Weird.  It works for me.  Andy seems to be right about drivers.  

> > For backward compatibility, I'd prefer if ESC[9m would still do the same.
> > As long as ESC[9m isn't desparately needed for something else...
>
> I thought there might be this objection as it is in theory an
> incompatible change but it's not in practice since dim mode doesn't
> work anyway; so I think this change towards the standard assignment
> should be done before someone in the future may fix dim mode to work
> after which it would actually be an incompatible change.
>
> > > * Maybe the escape sequences of shifted function keys should be
> > > modified   to comply with those of the Linux console?
> >
> > Aren't they compatible with xterm?  I don't think it's a terrible good
> > idea to change that.
>
> No, they are not:
>
> Linux console
> F1..F12         ^[[[A ^[[[B ^[[[C ^[[[D ^[[[E ^[[17~ ^[[18~ ^[[19~
> ^[[20~ ^[[21~ ^[[23~ ^[[24~
> shift-F1..F8    ^[[25~ ^[[26~ ^[[28~ ^[[29~ ^[[31~ ^[[32~ ^[[33~ ^[[34~
>
> cygwin console
> F1..F12         ^[[[A ^[[[B ^[[[C ^[[[D ^[[[E ^[[17~ ^[[18~ ^[[19~
> ^[[20~ ^[[21~ ^[[23~ ^[[24~
> shift-F1..F10   ^[[23~ ^[[24~ ^[[25~ ^[[26~ ^[[28~ ^[[29~ ^[[31~
> ^[[32~ ^[[33~ ^[[34~
> [...]
>  Furthermore, xterm and mintty also support
> Control- and Alt-modified F-keys and combinations of the modifiers.
> So if your preference would be to follow xterm here anyway, I would
> welcome this change and provide a patch; I think this change can be
> done without compatibility trouble in "mainstream applications"
> since the shifted F-keys are not listed in the cygwin terminfo
> entry.


Ooookey, if they aren't listed in terminfo anyway, I have no problems
to change them.  But we should stick to following the Linux console,
I guess.

> > Except for one of them, this doesn't work with a german keyboard and
> > german keyboard layout.  In this case, the respective keysequences
> > C+^, C+AltGr+sz, C+AG+8, C+AG+9 return nothing at all.  Only the
> > C+S+- key returns ^_, as expected.
>
> Thanks Andy for pointing to the part of mintty code handling this.
> However, the whole function there looks too complex for a quick
> copy-paste-patch. Maybe later...


No copy-paste, please.  Mintty is under GPL, so we can't just take
the code, unless Andy gives us explicit permission to do so.

> or Andy might like to factor out
> the mapping part in a way directly reusable for the cygwin console?
> (Or should it be left as is because it's "just the console"...?)


Well, it works in some way.  I played around with ToUnicode over the
weekend, and I didn't get it working as expected.  Take, for instance,
this (simplified):

```
  if (input_rec.Event.KeyEvent.dwControlKeyState
      & (LEFT_CTRL_PRESSED | RIGHT_CTRL_PRESSED))
    {
      GetKeyboardState (state);
      state[VK_CONTROL] = state[VK_LCONTROL] = state[VK_RCONTROL] = 0;
      if (ToUnicode (input_rec.Event.KeyEvent.wVirtualKeyCode,
		     input_rec.Event.KeyEvent.wVirtualScanCode,
		     state, wcbuf, 8, 0) > 0)
      	switch (wcbuf[0])
	  {
	  case L'[' ... L'_':
	    got_one = true;
	    break;
	  [...]
	  }
      [...]

```

When I pressed Strg-^ on a german keyboard layout (left of the "1"
key), I constantly got Ctrl-\ instead of Ctrl-^.  Weird.

> > >  - Pressing something like Alt-ö on a German keyboard leaves an
> > > illegal UTF-8     sequence (the second byte of the respective
> > > sequence) in input, apparently     because Alt-0xC3 is handled
> > > somehow. Don't know, though, whether this is     a cygwin
> > > console issue or maybe a readline issue.
> >
> > Alt is converted to a leading ESC.  I don't know how to fix that for
> > non-ASCII chars, yet.
>
> For non-ASCII it works fine, thanks to Andy for clarifying; I could


Erm... sorry, but do we really talk about the same?  If you press
Alt-ö, the console generates the sequence ESC 0xc3 0xb6.  That's not
desired so I'm contemplating the idea to skip the keypress if the
resulting multibyte char is > 1 byte.  This restricts ESC-somekey
either to explicit function key sequences (ESC-[-foo, etc), or
to just two byte sequences like ESC-A, ESC-0, ESC-;, etc.

> have checked this myself, even within bash, by simply typing
> Control-V Alt-ö. It does not work however, even for ASCII
> characters, for characters produced with AltGr, e.g. Alt-AltGr-Q
> where AltGr-Q is @ (German keyboard). Andy got this to work in
> mintty (I think with some other subtle trick after I challenged him
> for it IIRC); it does not work in xterm either.


That's potentially too tricky for the current code.  And, whatever
super-duper change we make to this essential console code in future,
let's wait until after 1.7.1, please.

> > > * I intended to implement cursor position reports and noticed
> > > that their   request ESC[6n is already handled in the code; it
> > > does not work, however,   so I started to debug it:
> >
> > This needs some more debugging, I guess.
>
> Do you have an opinion about my theory that the wrong read-ahead
> buffer is being filled here (stdout vs. stdin)? If so, I still have
> no clue how to proceed; maybe you'd kindly give a hint how to access
> the stdin buffer / stdin fhandler?


I have no opinion yet, since I don't know this part of the code good
enough.  IIUC you think that the readahead buffer of the wrong
fhandle_console is filled, the one connected with stdout, not the
one connected with stdin, right?


Corinna


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


