# Re: console enhancements: mouse events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-11-09T15:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091109152249.GA12652@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091109152249.GA12652@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/11/09/15-23-00)

On Nov  9 09:54, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Nov 09, 2009 at 02:35:51PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 8 23:02, towo@towo.net wrote:
> > > Corinna Vinschen schrieb:
> >
> > Ooookey, if they aren't listed in terminfo anyway, I have no problems
> > to change them.  But we should stick to following the Linux console, I
> > guess.
>
>
> I agree.  I'm surprised that we've had the function keys wrong all these
> years.
>
> > > > > * I intended to implement cursor position reports and noticed that
> > > > > their request ESC[6n is already handled in the code; it does not work,
> > > > > however, so I started to debug it:
> > > >
> > > > This needs some more debugging, I guess.
> > >
> > > Do you have an opinion about my theory that the wrong read-ahead buffer
> > > is being filled here (stdout vs.  stdin)?  If so, I still have no clue
> > > how to proceed; maybe you'd kindly give a hint how to access the stdin
> > > buffer / stdin fhandler?
> >
> >
> > I have no opinion yet, since I don't know this part of the code good
> > enough.  IIUC you think that the readahead buffer of the wrong
> > fhandle_console is filled, the one connected with stdout, not the one
> > connected with stdin, right?
>
>
> I'm still struggling to understand what a "stdout read-ahead buffer"
> might be.  Could you point to the place in the code where you see the
> problem?


As far as I understand it:

```
  Application writes ESC [ 6 n to stdout which is connected to one
  fhandler_console.  Cygwin creates the reply and copies it into the
  readahead buffer of this very fhandler_console.  But that's not the
  same fhandler_console which is connected to stdin, which is the
  fhandler the application reads the reply from.  So the reply never
  makes it to the application.

```


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


