# Re: [Patch] Segfault on unaligned lseek() on /dev/sdX (was: [ITP]   ddrescue  1.3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pedro Alves <pedro_alves@portugalmail.pt> |
| **To** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2007-05-19T16:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [464F25DB.3030105@portugalmail.pt](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/464F25DB.3030105@portugalmail.pt) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../18/19-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/05/19/16-29-00)

Christian Franke escreveu:
> Pedro Alves wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor escreveu:
> > > On Fri, May 18, 2007 at 09:02:15PM +0200, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Hi,
> > > >
> > > > Cygwin 1.5.24-2 segfaults on unaligned lseek() on raw block devices 
> > > > with sector size >512 bytes.
> > > >
> > > > Testcases:
> > > > ```
> > > > $ dd skip=1000 bs=2047 if=/dev/scd0 of=/dev/null
> > > >
> > > > $ ddrescue -c 1 /dev/scd0 file.iso
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > This is due to a fixed 512 byte buffer in fhandler_dev_floppy::lseek().
> > > > It is still present in HEAD revision.
> > > >
> > > > The attached patch should fix. It should work for any sector size.
> > > > (Smoke-)tested with 1.5.24-2 (too busy to test with current CVS, 
> > > > sorry).
> > > >
> > > > 2007-05-18  Christian Franke <franke@computer.org>
> > > >
> > > >     * fhandler_floppy.cc (fhandler_dev_floppy::lseek): Fixed 
> > > > segfault on
> > > >     unaligned seek due to fixed size buffer.
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > It seems like this could be done without the heavyweight use of malloc,
> > > like use an automatic array of length 512 + 4 and calculate an aligned
> > > address from that.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Or use alloca instead?
> >
> > -  char buf[512];
> > +  char *buf = (char *) alloca (512);
> >
>
>
> Yes, thanks.
>
> Makes the new patch really simple, see attachment.
>


Actually, I also thought you were talking about memory alignment,
and since alloca has the same alignment guaranties as malloc, it would
avoid doing the + 4 + alignment calc.

I'm just looking at fhandler_floopy.cc for the first time,
but, isn't there the possibility that bytes_left can be a bit too big
for alloca?  It looks like that the raw_read call is there to
advance the position by the needed amount (moving back is forbidden
a bit above).  Perhaps it would be better to read in a loop with
read amount limited by the size of the buffer:

while more bytes
do
```
     read minimum of bytes left or size of buffer
     if couldn't read, bail out. (oooops internal state broken now).
```

done

Cheers,
Pedro Alves



