# Re: [PATCH] 230.4Kbps support for serial port

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-09T08:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030109082133.GA21768@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030109082133.GA21768@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/22-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/09/08-21-00)

On Tue, Jan 07, 2003 at 03:48:51PM -0700, Troy Curtiss wrote:
> Hi,
>  Attached is a patch that enables cygwin to talk at 230400 bps on serial 
> ports that support the higher rate.  It also does the necessary 
> error-checking to confirm whether or not a given port is capable of 
> extended bitrates.  I added B230400 (for Posix) and CBR_230400 (for Win32) 
> definitions to the appropriate header files (termios.h and winbase.h, 
> respectively).  I've been testing for a couple days now and it appears to 
> work as designed.  (We use a lot of extended bitrate devices at work, 
> mostly with Win32 code - so this simply brings the paradigm across to the 
> posix side of the house.)
>
> Question:  Upon failure (ie. trying to configure a non-230.4K capable port 
> to talk 230.4K), I simply return -1...  I'm not sure whether POSIX would 
> set errno = EINVAL or not... either way is fine.
>
>  Let me know if you have any questions, otherwise it sure would be nice 
> to roll this in if possible :)  Thanks,


I'll apply this patch (with a reformatted changelog) to cygwin but not
to winbase.h.  I couldn't find any reference to a CBR_230400 anywhere so
it wouldn't be technically correct to a windows header file.

Thanks,
cgf

> 2003-01-06  Troy Curtiss <troyc@usa.net>
>
> 	* fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcsetattr): Add support and
> 	capability checking for B230400 bitrate.
> 	* fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcgetattr): Add support for
> 	B230400 bitrate.
> 	* /cvs/src/src/winsup/w32api/include/winbase.h: Add CBR_230400
> 	definition for Win32 support of 230.4Kbps.
> 	* /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/include/sys/termios.h: Add B230400
> 	definition for Posix support of 230.4Kbps.



