# Re: [PATCH] 230.4Kbps support for serial port

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Troy Curtiss <tcurtiss@qcpi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-09T15:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [003201c2b7f4$415aad00$6501a8c0@tcurtiss2](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/003201c2b7f4$415aad00$6501a8c0@tcurtiss2) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/22-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/09/15-32-00)

Christopher,
  You're right, there is no such thing as CBR_230400 in Win32-land as
documented/supported by MS.  Simply replace CBR_230400 with 230400 and you
won't need to touch winbase.h.  Thanks,

-Troy

----- Original Message -----
From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 09, 2003 1:21 AM
Subject: Re: [PATCH] 230.4Kbps support for serial port


> On Tue, Jan 07, 2003 at 03:48:51PM -0700, Troy Curtiss wrote:
> > Hi,
> >  Attached is a patch that enables cygwin to talk at 230400 bps on serial
> > ports that support the higher rate.  It also does the necessary
> > error-checking to confirm whether or not a given port is capable of
> > extended bitrates.  I added B230400 (for Posix) and CBR_230400 (for
>

Win32)
> > definitions to the appropriate header files (termios.h and winbase.h,
> > respectively).  I've been testing for a couple days now and it appears to
> > work as designed.  (We use a lot of extended bitrate devices at work,
> > mostly with Win32 code - so this simply brings the paradigm across to the
> > posix side of the house.)
> >
> > Question:  Upon failure (ie. trying to configure a non-230.4K capable
>

port
> > to talk 230.4K), I simply return -1...  I'm not sure whether POSIX would
> > set errno = EINVAL or not... either way is fine.
> >
> >  Let me know if you have any questions, otherwise it sure would be nice
> > to roll this in if possible :)  Thanks,
>
>
> I'll apply this patch (with a reformatted changelog) to cygwin but not
> to winbase.h.  I couldn't find any reference to a CBR_230400 anywhere so
> it wouldn't be technically correct to a windows header file.
>
> Thanks,
> cgf
>
> > 2003-01-06  Troy Curtiss <troyc@usa.net>
> >
> > * fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcsetattr): Add support and
> > capability checking for B230400 bitrate.
> > * fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcgetattr): Add support for
> > B230400 bitrate.
> > * /cvs/src/src/winsup/w32api/include/winbase.h: Add CBR_230400
> > definition for Win32 support of 230.4Kbps.
> > * /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/include/sys/termios.h: Add B230400
> > definition for Posix support of 230.4Kbps.
>
>
>



