# Re: [PATCH] 230.4Kbps support for serial port

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Troy Curtiss <tcurtiss@qcpi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-01-09T18:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4.3.2.7.2.20030109111457.00b323a0@smtphost-cod.intra.kyocera-wireless.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4.3.2.7.2.20030109111457.00b323a0@smtphost-cod.intra.kyocera-wireless.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/22-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/01/09/18-18-00)

Christopher,
   I see in the latest fhandler_serial::tcsetattr(), the following part of 
my patch wasn't applied.  This piece is necessary in the event the serial 
device doesn't actually support 230.4Kbps (so tcsetattr() will return an 
error instead of simply not working.)

```diff
@@ -723,8 +726,12 @@ fhandler_serial::tcsetattr (int action,
    state.fAbortOnError = TRUE;

    /* -------------- Set state and exit ------------------ */
-  if (memcmp (&ostate, &state, sizeof (state)) != 0)
-    SetCommState (get_handle (), &state);
+  if ((memcmp (&ostate, &state, sizeof (state)) != 0) &&
+      !SetCommState (get_handle (), &state))
+    {
+      /* Return now if any of the parameters in the DCB didn't take */
+      return -1;
+    }

   Thanks,

-Troy

```



At 03:21 AM 1/9/2003 -0500, you wrote:
> On Tue, Jan 07, 2003 at 03:48:51PM -0700, Troy Curtiss wrote:
> > Hi,
> >  Attached is a patch that enables cygwin to talk at 230400 bps on serial
> > ports that support the higher rate.  It also does the necessary
> > error-checking to confirm whether or not a given port is capable of
> > extended bitrates.  I added B230400 (for Posix) and CBR_230400 (for Win32)
> > definitions to the appropriate header files (termios.h and winbase.h,
> > respectively).  I've been testing for a couple days now and it appears to
> > work as designed.  (We use a lot of extended bitrate devices at work,
> > mostly with Win32 code - so this simply brings the paradigm across to the
> > posix side of the house.)
> >
> > Question:  Upon failure (ie. trying to configure a non-230.4K capable port
> > to talk 230.4K), I simply return -1...  I'm not sure whether POSIX would
> > set errno = EINVAL or not... either way is fine.
> >
> >  Let me know if you have any questions, otherwise it sure would be nice
> > to roll this in if possible :)  Thanks,
>
>
> I'll apply this patch (with a reformatted changelog) to cygwin but not
> to winbase.h.  I couldn't find any reference to a CBR_230400 anywhere so
> it wouldn't be technically correct to a windows header file.
>
> Thanks,
> cgf
>
> > 2003-01-06  Troy Curtiss <troyc@usa.net>
> >
> >       * fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcsetattr): Add support and
> >       capability checking for B230400 bitrate.
> >       * fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::tcgetattr): Add support for
> >       B230400 bitrate.
> >       * /cvs/src/src/winsup/w32api/include/winbase.h: Add CBR_230400
> >       definition for Win32 support of 230.4Kbps.
> >       * /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/include/sys/termios.h: Add B230400
> >       definition for Posix support of 230.4Kbps.
>



