# Re: [PATCH] Added Kazuhiro's new wchar functions to cygwin.din

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-09-03T06:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D74BD4A.80403@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D74BD4A.80403@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/30/05-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/03/06-46-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> > 2002-09-02  Kazuhiro Fujieda  <fujieda@jaist.ac.jp>
> >
> >  * cygwin.din: Revert exporting new wchar functions.
> >  * include/cygwin/version.h: Revert bumping API minor number.
> >
>
>
> Applied with a little tweak in version.h.
>

I'd like to voice a small objection to this practice of adding and then 
removing symbols, especially given the quantity in this case and the 
period of time which lapsed inbetween.  I don't think this practice 
should be encouraged at all because it can be quite a PITA if you have 
apps which were compiled when the symbols were exported.  I think this 
goes double for "cosmetic" issues which are going to be fixed anyhow in 
the near future.  I'm trying to help Conrad test the cygserver, so I 
have many apps I'm using for testing purposes.  I am now going to have 
to recompile the ones I just compiled the other day due to this change. 
 Chuck once told me, and I agree, that once symbols are added then they 
should not be removed [unless this is done in a very short period of 
time, like a matter of hours].  Any problems which arise with the 
exported function will have to be fixed in due course of time, but the 
export should remain.  Now I realize these are cvs/snapshot sources, but 
some considieration should be given to the consistancy of the dll.  As 
Chuck said, we shouldn't just add[remove] symbols in a willy-nilly 
fashion.  At the very least, if removing the functions *had* to be done, 
you could have left dummy stubs in place until the real functions were 
ready to go.  I guess this is just my 2¢ chiming in on this, so feel 
free to disagree...

Cheers,
Nicholas


