# Re: [PATCH] Added Kazuhiro's new wchar functions to cygwin.din

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-09-03T08:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D74D6D0.7080007@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D74D6D0.7080007@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../08/30/05-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/03/08-36-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Tue, Sep 03, 2002 at 09:46:50AM -0400, Nicholas Wourms wrote:
>
> > I'd like to voice a small objection to this practice of adding and then 
> > removing symbols, especially given the quantity in this case and the 
> > period of time which lapsed inbetween.  I don't think this practice 
> > should be encouraged at all because it can be quite a PITA if you have 
> > apps which were compiled when the symbols were exported.  I think this 
> > goes double for "cosmetic" issues which are going to be fixed anyhow in 
> > the near future.  I'm trying to help Conrad test the cygserver, so I 
> > have many apps I'm using for testing purposes.  I am now going to have 
> > to recompile the ones I just compiled the other day due to this change. 
> >
>
>
> That's the reason I copy only the new built DLL to my "Cygwin test and
> native build system", and *not* the libcygwin.a.  This way, I link always
> against the symbols available in the latest stable release and not
> against symbols only available in the developers snapshot (except I
> really, really want it).
>

I guess in retrospect I should have taken this approach.  The only 
reason I hadn't in the past is because I thought Chuck's statements 
represented the "party-line" of this project.  Oh well, live and learn.

Cheers,
Nicholas


