# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Fix speclib for x86_64

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-02-17T17:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130217174144.GA24198@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130217174144.GA24198@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/02/17/17-42-00)

On Feb 17 12:18, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sun, Feb 17, 2013 at 06:09:44PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 17 11:52, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Sun, Feb 17, 2013 at 02:41:41PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Feb 17 04:46, Yaakov wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > 2013-02-16  Yaakov Selkowitz  <yselkowitz@...>
> > > > >
> > > > > 	* Makefile.in (libcygwin.a): Move --target flag from here...
> > > > > 	(toolopts): to here, to be used by both mkimport and speclib.
> > > > > 	* speclib: Omit leading underscore in symbol names on x86_64.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > The Makefile patch is fine, but for the speclib change I wonder why
> > > > we should omit the leading underscore.  If you remove the underscore,
> > > > you're polluting the application namespace.  Is there really a good
> > > > reason to do that?  Did I miss something?
> > >
> > >
> > > Doesn't the x86_64 target forego leading underscores on normal variable
> > > names?
> >
> >
> > My dictionary returns ambiguous results for the word "forego",
> > so I answer that generically:
>
>
> I mispelled "forgo".
>
> > On x86_64 there's no underscore prepended to symbols.
>
>
> So, why would we add an underscore?  Does binutils add underscores to
> these *_dll_iname symbols anyway?


That's what I subsumed under "Did I miss something?"  The answer is
apparently "yes".  AFAICS, binutils does not prepend an underscore to
these iname symbols, so the patch to speclib is fine.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


