# Re: [RFC PATCH 1/3] Cygwin: allow redirecting stderr in ch_spawn

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-06-21T10:38:37-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [cf09e022-0033-e620-0af9-bda1d3c752a9@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/cf09e022-0033-e620-0af9-bda1d3c752a9@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/29/17-57-46.thread.md#:~:text=2025/06/21/17-38-37)

On Tue, 17 Jun 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On May 29 10:57, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > stdin and stdout were alreadly allowed for popen, but implementing
> > posix_spawn in terms of spawn would require stderr as well.
> > ---
> > ```
> >  winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc                    | 2 ++
> >  winsup/cygwin/local_includes/child_info.h | 6 +++---
> >  winsup/cygwin/spawn.cc                    | 5 +++--
> >  3 files changed, 8 insertions(+), 5 deletions(-)
> > ```
> >
>
>
> LGTM
>
> Thanks,
> Corinna



OK, I could push this one, since it stands alone and I'm sure that it
works because I have used it in the subsequent patch.  The reason I
haven't is that I am still trying to figure out if an additional change to
child_info.h might be needed for (f)chdir, and I am trying to avoid making
multiple changes to the CHILD_INFO_MAGIC.  Let me know if this is not
really a concern.

My current thinking is that yes, something would need to be in
child_info_spawn or cygheap_exec_info.  I'm leaning towards an int dirfd,
because I would need that anyway to deal with open actions after a chdir
(using openat).  My sticking point is considering how to deal with
spawning a non-Cygwin process.

a) I would need a wide Windows path for CreateProcessW, but fhandler
doesn't expose its path_conv or get_nt_native_path, only get_name
(get_posix) and get_win32_name (get_win32) which is narrow.  Adding
another accessor to fhandler_base probably wouldn't be too controversial.

b) I would need the same logic as in cwdstuff::set to determine whether
the dir is "legal" to use for a non-Cygwin app's cwd, and the error to
report if it's not (cwdstuff::get_error_desc).  I'm not a fan of
copy-pasting code, so it will take some consideration of how to refactor
that in a way that the code could be called by both.  Suggestions
appreciated.

Maybe next week I can get back to these patches and button up more and get
it to a point where it can be merged (especially if it's OK to leave
adding (f)chdir changes for later).


