# setfacl version patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-05-23T17:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.44.0205231943140.1096-200000@iocc.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.44.0205231943140.1096-200000@iocc.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-45-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/05/23/17-45-00)

> I understand your reasoning.  I've applied your latest patch, though
> since I think the --examples isn't straightforward enough.  It's not
> a really good point, it's just an opinion, so...
>
> OTOH, perhaps we should drop that text completely at a later point as
> soon as we have the man page?!?


Yes, I think that might be a good idea. The man page (and the using-utils
web page) will shortly contain all this information. I think it would be
the best place to update documentation instead of --help output. Perhaps
we could get some more examples of it making life easier on the web page,
too. But, for now...

Here is a patch to setfacl that adds longopts for all options,
standardizes the usage output, and adds the GNU standard --version option.
It uses the same method of outputting lots of info. I put the info in
what seems to me a more logical order, with the description of Acl_entries
first and then the options in alphabetical order. You might want to take
a look and make sure I didn't screw anything up in the description.

2002-05-23  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>
	* setfacl.c (usage) Standardize usage output. Change return type to
	static void.
	(print_version) New function.
	(longopts) Added longopts for all options.
	(main) Accommodate changes in usage function and new version option.


---

**Attachments:**

- [setfacl.c-patch](setfacl.c-patch) (text)
