# Re: [PATCH] Crosscompiling configure fix

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-02-07T15:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110207152625.GD6611@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110207152625.GD6611@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/21-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/02/07/15-26-00)

On Mon, Feb 07, 2011 at 12:58:57PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb  5 21:34, Peter Foley wrote:
> > I've submitted a fix for a problem I came across while trying to build a Linux-hosted Cygwin cross compiler. While bootstrapping Cygwin the autoconf scripts in winsup/cygwin and winsup/cygserver fail because the bootstrap compiler is missing some of the files needed to link a Cygwin executable. Because the source for some of the needed files is in the winsup directory, this creates a curricular dependency. The attached patch lets autoconf complete successfully by not running the tests that require linking if Cygwin is being crosscompiled.
> >
> > Thanks,
> >
> > Peter Foley
> >
> > winsup/cygserver/ChangeLog:
> >
> > 2011-02-5 Peter Foley <...>
> >
> > 	* configure.in: Skip tests that require linking if cross compiling.
> > 	* configure: Regenerate.
> >
> > winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog:
> >
> > 2011-02-5 Peter Foley <...>
> >
> > 	* configure.in: Skip tests that require linking if cross compiling.
> > 	* configure: Regenerate.
>
>
> Thanks for the patch.  Btw., you don't have to provide the generated
> files, the configure.in files are sufficient.
>
> I'm just wondering why we need this stuff at all.  I mean, is there
> really any good reason to do the AC_ALLOCA test, and why do we have
> this AC_TRY_COMPILE test for __builtin_memset?  Both results are not
> used anywhere, they are just written to config.h and then forgotten.
>
> So I take it, we could just drop this stuff.
>
> Chris?  What do you say?


I agree.  Nuke 'em.

cgf


