# Re: Performance: fhandler_socket and ready_for_read()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-30T17:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020731002910.GD17985@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020731002910.GD17985@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/30/17-28-00)

On Wed, Jul 31, 2002 at 12:10:13AM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> Attached is a socket patch that can make some programs by as much as 50
> times quicker.
>
> In looking for something else, it struck me that there doesn't seem to
> be any reason for the fhandler_base::ready_for_read() method when
> reading from sockets.  All that the method seems to be doing is
> checking for signals while waiting for data to arrive on the relevant
> fhandler object (eventually it calls peek_socket() which does a
> select() on the socket).  The fhandler_socket::read() method already
> handles signals happily (if the socket is blocking and winsock2 is
> available) since it uses an overlapped read and then blocks on the
> socket event and the signal_arrived event.
>
> Assuming that there is thus no need for this call to ready_to_read()
> for sockets (and please tell me if I'm wrong here), the following patch
> provides an stubbed fhandler_read::ready_for_read() that does nothing
> when that is valid.


If sockets are already testing for signals then ready_for_read is
redundant and even incorrect.

I think the actual way to fix this is to add a get_r_no_interrupt method
to fhandler_socket.  This avoids a call to ready_for_read.  This wasn't
previously possible since this wasn't a virtual method but now it is.

Unless you disagree, would you mind just adding a get_r_no_interrupt method
to fhandler_socket, using the same criteria as your ready_for_read stub?

Thanks for finding this, by the way.  A speed improvement in socket handling
is very welcome.  Sounds like it is time for a 1.3.13 release.

cgf


