# Re: [WIP::PATCHES] [RFC] Preliminary ARM64 compilation support for Cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Thirumalai Nagalingam <thirumalai.nagalingam@multicorewareinc.com> |
| **Date** | 2025-12-10T18:37:03+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aTmvvwfClr2suB2R@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aTmvvwfClr2suB2R@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/10-09-52.thread.md#:~:text=2025/12/10/17-37-03)

Hi Thirumalai,

thanks for letting us know, this is pretty exciting!

Just one nit for now.  The first patch contains newlib/Makefile.in but
not newlib/Makefile.am.  Please make sure to change Makefile.am instead.


Thanks,
Corinna


On Dec  8 10:09, Thirumalai Nagalingam wrote:
> Hi Everyone,
>
> I'm sharing a set of ~28 patches that enable preliminary compilation of the Cygwin on ARM64.
> [27 patch files (001-026 patches + one consolidated '[MAIN]-Cygwin-Workarounds-to-compile-for-aarch64.patch' containing all changes].
>
>
>   *   These patches are work-in-progress and not yet ready for upstream review.
>   *   They are being posted here primarily to make the work public and efforts visible to the community.
>   *   In the near future, we plan to improve them and re-submit them in separate threads for proper review and eventual merging into upstream/master.
>   *   A [V2] of many of these patches will be prepared and submitted.
>
> Although this series is not ready for detailed review, anyone interested is welcome to look through the changes. Feedback, suggestions, or enhancements are appreciated.
> I would also like to acknowledge and thank Radek Bartoň <radek.barton@microsoft.com> and Evgeny Karpov <Evgeny.Karpov@microsoft.com> for their contributions to this effort.
>
> Thanks to everyone for maintaining Cygwin.
>
> Best regards,
> Thirumalai Nagalingam
> <Thirumalai.nagalingam@multicorewareinc.com>































