# Re: CFA: pseudo-reloc v2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-05-05T19:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100505191317.GA14692@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100505191317.GA14692@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/05/05/19-13-00)

On Wed, May 05, 2010 at 07:58:20PM +0100, Dave Korn wrote:
> On 05/05/2010 18:56, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > I like the idea but I have a few problems with this, some stylistic and
> > some implementation.
> >
> > Stylistic:
>
>
>  Those all make sense to me, but I won't rework it yet until we've seen your
> PoC/discussed further.
>
> > Implementation:
> >
> > I don't like keeping a list of "places we know we need to ignore" separate from
> > the Cygwin DLL.  That means that if there is something new added besides data/bss
> > this function becomes obsolete.
> >
> > I think this argues for most of this functionality being moved to the
> > Cygwin DLL itself so that an application gets improvements for free.  I
> > should have suggested that when this function first made its way into
> > the libcygwin.a (or maybe I did and someone will enlighten me about why that
> > won't work).
> >
> > I'll see I can come up with a proof-of-concept of what I'm talking about soon.
> >
> > Btw, don't we have to worry about data/bss for DLLs too?  Is that
> > handled by this change or is that not an issue?
>
>
>  We do have to worry and it is handled.  This code gets linked statically
> into each DLL and EXE, each instance referring just to its own pseudo-reloc
> tables.  The Cygwin DLL copies all the data and bss for both DLLs and EXEs (at
> process attach time), then they all run their own pseudo-relocs (at first
> thread attach time).


Yeah, I realized that two seconds after sending the message.  However,
is this particular problem really an issue for DLLs?  DLLs should get
their data/bss updated after _pei386_runtime_relocator() is called.  So
it seems like you'd get the same thing being written twice.  It's not
optimal but it shouldn't be fatal.

The program's data/bss is different since that gets copied during DLL
initialization and before _pei386_runtime_relocator() is (was) called.  So
I could see how it could be screwed up.

>  So we could move the core __write_memory and do_pseudo_relocs routines into
> the DLL, and adjust the code in _cygwin_crt0_common to pass the per_process
> struct to _pei386_runtime_relocator which could pass it and the reloc list
> start/end pointers through to the code in the DLL, and it could then be code
> in the DLL that knows which memory ranges it copied and should avoid
> re-relocating.


That's basically it and I have it more-or-less coded but I haven't
finished thinking about DLLs.  Maybe that's more complication than is
warranted.  I have to do more research there.  We could, and I think
should, put most of the code in pseudo_reloc.c in cygwin1.dll, though,
rather than duplicate it in every source file.

> Is that the kind of structure you were thinking of?  The problem I saw
> with any kind of approach based on actually knowing which ranges were
> actually copied (as opposed to simply inferring that it was the data
> and bss sections between their start and end labels) is that that all
> takes place in the parent rather than the child, so how to communicate
> it to the child where the relocating is taking place would be pretty
> tricky, I thought.


This information is all recorded for fork() so it should be doable.  It is
more complicated to do it outside of the program but, like I said, it allows
us to fix problems by a new release of the DLL rather than telling people
"You must relink your program".

cgf


