# Re: CFA: pseudo-reloc v2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-05-05T20:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100505203042.GA15996@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100505203042.GA15996@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/05/05/20-30-00)

On Wed, May 05, 2010 at 08:48:28PM +0100, Dave Korn wrote:
> On 05/05/2010 20:13, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > Yeah, I realized that two seconds after sending the message.  However,
> > is this particular problem really an issue for DLLs?  DLLs should get
> > their data/bss updated after _pei386_runtime_relocator() is called.  So
> > it seems like you'd get the same thing being written twice.  It's not
> > optimal but it shouldn't be fatal.
> >
> > The program's data/bss is different since that gets copied during DLL
> > initialization and before _pei386_runtime_relocator() is (was) called.  So
> > I could see how it could be screwed up.
>
>
>  Ah, right; I wasn't looking at how much later the dll sections got copied, I
> just figured the safest and consistent solution was just to treat everything
> the same.
>
> > That's basically it and I have it more-or-less coded but I haven't
> > finished thinking about DLLs.  Maybe that's more complication than is
> > warranted.  I have to do more research there.  We could, and I think
> > should, put most of the code in pseudo_reloc.c in cygwin1.dll, though,
> > rather than duplicate it in every source file.
>
>
>  Yeh, the only thing we need in the source file is to capture the module's
> idea of its section start/end pointers, as we already do in the per_process;
> we could consider passing pointers to the pseudo-relocs in that as well, but
> horrible backward-compatibility problems could arise.  It would make sense to
> inline the remnants of _pei386_runtime_relocator into _cygwin_crt0_common and
> do away with the pseudo-reloc.c file altogether.
>
> > This information is all recorded for fork() so it should be doable.  It is
> > more complicated to do it outside of the program but, like I said, it allows
> > us to fix problems by a new release of the DLL rather than telling people
> > "You must relink your program".
>
>
>  Yeh.  Unfortunately it's too late to help with this time, but it would help
> any future problem (so long as it didn't require us to capture additional data
> in the lib/ part of the executable but could be fixed with what we were
> already passing to the Cygwin DLL).


I have something written now.  I'll dig through the cygwin archives to
see if I can find the original message which started this but are there
other test cases that I could use to verify that I caught all of the
code paths in the DLL?

Chuck?  Do you have anything I could use to test what I did?

What I did:

1) Move pseudo-reloc.c out of lib and into the dll (making
it a c++ file in the process).

2) Record the three values needed by _pei386_runtime_relocator in the
per_process structure.

3) Modify _pei386_runtime_relocator() to take a per_process * argument
and to check that the api of the per_process structure supports the
additional three values.

4) For fork call _pei386_runtime_relocator() before the copy of the program's
data/bss in child_info_fork::handle_fork().

5) For non-fork, call _pei386_runtime_relocator() in dll_crt0_1().

6) For dll's, call _pei386_runtime_relocator() in dll_list::alloc().

I haven't added any optimizations to make this implementation avoid
copying the data/bss but that is doable using Dave's technique.  It
just isn't needed now since the fork data copy should always trump
_pei386_runtime_relocator().

cgf


