# Re: New program: cygtweak

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-09-27T16:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.56.0309271124210.3193@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.56.0309271124210.3193@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2002/08/16/12-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/09/27/16-42-00)

On Fri, 26 Sep 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Fri, Aug 16, 2002 at 03:42:21PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > I've tried submitting this twice before, and had gotten no reaction.  I'm
> > trying to find out what the proper procedure is and which list should this
> > be sent to.  I'd also like to discuss the appropriate name for this little
> > app, as well as get your comments on its usefulness.  To avoid retyping
> > and clogging up the list, I'm providing a link to the latest submission
> > below.
> >
> > http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q3/msg00261.html
>
>
> I know it's amazingly late to be responding to this but I'd like to reconsider
> it, although I'm not wild about the 'cygtweak' name.
>
> Maybe cygoption would be better?  And, if you're still interested in submitting
> this (and I wouldn't blame you if you weren't given that it's been more than
> a year) we'd need this to be added to the utils.sgml file, also.
>
> cgf


Well, I think I've gotten the hang of the procedures by now (that was one
of my first submissions -- WOW, time flies).  No, it's not too late, and I
still think this would be useful.

Yep, the message actually says that "cygtweak" should be renamed.  I think
"cygprogctl" is even better than "cygoption", so that's the name I used.
I've also changed the headers and copyrights appropriately.

Attached is a patch against the latest CVS that adds the "cygprogctl"
script with a description in utils.sgml and the appropriate rules in
Makefile.in.  The only thing I didn't test were the rules in the Makefile,
so if someone could please double-check them, it'd be great.  As usual,
the ChangeLog is below.
	Igor
=============================================================================
ChangeLog:
2003-09-27  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>

	* cygprogctl: New shell script.
	* Makefile.in: Add rules for cygprogctl.
	* utils.sgml: Add section on cygprogctl.

-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygprogctl-add.patch](cygprogctl-add.patch) (text)
