# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: resolve AArch64 linking by linking to onecore instead of kernel32

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Radek Barton <radek.barton@microsoft.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-06-13T21:03:04+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ecebaf4b-7558-41b1-ad80-a7fe52995673@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ecebaf4b-7558-41b1-ad80-a7fe52995673@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2025/07/10/19-14-06.thread.md#:~:text=2026/06/13/20-03-04)

On 05/06/2026 15:37, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 14/07/2025 14:11, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Radek,
> >
> > On Jul 10 19:14, Radek Barton via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > Hello.
> > >
> > > As Windows Arm64 platform does not carry historical compatibility 
> > > layers, the structure of Windows API DLLs is cleaner on Arm64 than on 
> > > x64. For this reason, the x64 linking against `kernel32.dll` is not 
> > > sufficient leading to undefined references to many Windows API 
> > > symbols that are in different DLLs that would have to be added to the 
> > > linking command explicitly.
> > >
> > > To address that, there is a concept of umbrella DLLs (https:// 
> > > learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/apiindex/windows-umbrella- 
> > > libraries), that can be added instead. The recommended replacement 
> > > for `kernel32.dll` is `onecore.dll` (https://learn.microsoft.com/en- 
> > > us/windows-hardware/drivers/develop/building-for-onecore#building- 
> > > for-onecore) that should be available since Windows 7.
> > >
> > > In case of Cygwin linking, there is one exception, `pdh.dll` 
> > > (Performance Data Helper, https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/ 
> > > win32/perfctrs/performance-counters-functions), that is not included 
> > > in the `onecore.dll`.
> >
> >
> > The pdh functions used by Cygwin are NOT linked against.  They are
> > runtime loaded (see autoload.cc, right at the end), so it should not be
> > necessary to link against libpdh.a.  Can you please check again?
>
>
>   I assume that -lpdh has been added here because the autoload stubs 
> used during aarch64 development translate into direct linkage.
>
> Hopefully, it's not necessary with a full autoload implementation .


So, my speculation seems to be correct.

The other issue here is that we can't link against non-well-known DLLs 
here without making ourselves vulnerable to DLL hijacking attacks. (This 
detail probably needs to be noted in a comment here).

It's unclear that to me that the onecore umbrella import library makes 
that guarantee? (So we could accidentally introduce the use of an API 
from a non-well-known DLLs without noticing)

So maybe this needs to be conditional on the arch? Or perhaps the 
solution is to autoload the problematic APIs here?



