# Re: ntsec odds and ends

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Max Bowsher <maxb@ukf.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-02-08T11:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [001501c2cf67$f8c64640$78d96f83@pomello](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/001501c2cf67$f8c64640$78d96f83@pomello) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/14-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/02/08/11-48-00)

> At 03:05 PM 2/6/2003 -0000, Max Bowsher wrote:
> > Truncation by ls shouldn't matter much. I would say that a new user
> > is more likely to notice "run mkpa" than "mkpasswd".
>


Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Max got exactly right why I had put the "run" in.
> 1.3.19 already contains an embryo of the ideas. The group is set to
> "mkgroup" if things look wrong (either passwd or group).
> Unfortunately look at
> <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2003-02/msg00302.html>
>
> A new user took the trouble to send us the outputs of "id" AND "ls
> -l".
> The word "mkgroup" is in plain view but didn't excite any neurons
> (it does to us, because we already know of mkgroup).
> That's why I thought that an imperative could help, as short as
> possible "do", "go", "run",... , something that won't look as a
> plausible group name. "dumbass" has merit, but at that stage it's not
> the user's fault if passwd is incomplete. Flashing ls has merit too,
> but I'd rather restrict the changes to cygwin itself (dll or install
> scripts).
>
> Earlier I wrote that I considered changing the user's name, but that
> it could have side effects. I was afraid of /etc/profile creating a
> directory under the incorrect name. After reviewing it, I see that I
> was wrong.
> HOME is always set in a way that doesn't depend on the user name
> and the home directory is always set from the current HOME.
>
> So we could consider changing the user's name if it is not in
> /etc/passwd. That would be much more detectable than changing the
> group name.
> Using the formats of "ls -l" and "id" we could set the name to
> "run mkpa" and the group to "sswd   and mkgroup to set your identity".
> (the last 6 words will only show in "id"),
> or the name to "type mkp", where mkp would be a shell script
> explaining what to do, or to some other combination yet to be
> contributed.


How about putting all of "run mkpasswd and mkgroup to set your identity" in
the username?

Then it will show up in the default bash prompt.


Max.



