# Re: [PATCHes] Misc aliasing fixes for building DLL with gcc-4.5.0

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-08-10T04:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4A7FA1E0.7070209@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4A7FA1E0.7070209@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-58-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/08/10/04-15-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Aug 10, 2009 at 04:11:49AM +0100, Dave Korn wrote:
> > 	* fhandler_tty.cc (process_input): Add dummy return to silence warning.
> > 	(process_ioctl): Likewise.
>
>
> Shouldn't these be defined with __attribute__ ((noreturn))?


  They probably should also, but (I forgot to mention) I tried it and it didn't
solve the warning.

> > 	* fork.cc (cygfork): New name with friendable C++ linkage for ...
> > 	(fork): ... un-friendable extern "C" function becomes stub calling it.
> > 	(class frok): Declare cygfork() friend, not fork(), avoiding PR41020.
>
>
> Ugh.  I don't like this.  fork is slow enough and complicated enough
> without adding this kind of workaround.  If this is a problem with
> declaring an 'extern "C"' friend function then it should be fixable by
> just making fork() a C++ function but exporting it as a "C" function
> in cygwin.din.


  My turn to say "ugh"!  The wrapper function would translate down to a single
'jmp' if -fno-omit-frame-pointer was in effect, but as things stand it's a bit
ugly.  So maybe we should let both of these rest for a while and see how things
pan out upstream.

> Also, referring to a bug without explaining what the problem either in
> the source code or the ChangeLog is a guaranteed way to cause confusion
> tomorrow after a memory cache refresh.


  You mean the PR notation?  Hopefully GCC's bugzilla will still be there
tomorrow!  Anyway, with a bit of luck we won't end up needing this one at all.

```
    cheers,
      DaveK
```



