# setup.exe command line options

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | keith_starsmeare@yahoo.co.uk <kxs@breathemail.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-24T05:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [005401c1a4da$c93e3e90$30313c3e@Obsession](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/005401c1a4da$c93e3e90$30313c3e@Obsession) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/24/05-25-00)

I've attached the diffs for the work in progress implementation of command
line options. I've tried to copy the dialog's terminology when choosing the
options and the variables used within WinMain.

I'm using the PropertyPage Create functions as my interface. In many
instances the Create function can do all the work for that dialog, and can
return false - so no dialog will be created.

However some dialog's (like the create desktop icon dialog) get called
directly using next_dialog. So for these I've currently used the create
function to toggle a static variable which can be used later. This isn't
working very well yet!

I'm having problems with the packagedir and the rootdir Create functions, I
must be missing something. Most importantly I'm having difficulty getting
yyparse called. :(

Much work still to be done, but have a look and let me know how appalled you
all are at my strategy!

Keith

ChangeLog:

2002-01-24  Keith Starsmeare  <keith_starsmeare@yahoo.co.uk>

        * choose.cc (ChooserPage::Create): Add 1 (currently unused) command
line parameter.
        * choose.h (ChooserPage::Create): Ditto.
        * desktop.cc (DesktopSetupPage::Create): Add 1 command line
parameter; toggles (currently unused) static variable.
        * desktop.h (DesktopSetupPage::Create): Add 1 command line
parameter.
        * ini.cc (do_ini_nowindow): New function, based on do_ini.
        * localdir.cc (LocalDirPage::Create): Use 2 new command line
parameters to determine if dialog is needed.
        * localdir.h (LocalDirPage::Create): Add 2 new command line
parameters.
        * main.cc (usage): Raises a dialog listing command line options.
        (WinMain): Process command line arguments, pass relevant arguments
to PropertyPage Create functions.
        * net.cc (NetPage::Create): Use 6 new command line parameters to
determine if dialog is needed.
        * net.h (NetPage::Create): Add 6 new command line parameters.
        * root.cc (RootPage::Create): Use 3 new command line parameters to
determine if dialog is needed.
        * root.h (RootPage::Create): Add 3 new command line parameters.
        * site.cc (SitePage::Create): Use 3 new command line parameters to
determine if dialog is needed.
        * site.h (SitePage::Create): Add 3 new command line parameters.
        * source.cc (SourcePage::Create): Use 3 new command line parameters
to determine if dialog is needed.
        * source.h (SourcePage::Create): Add 3 new command line parameters.
        * splash.cc (SplashPage::Create): Use new command line parameter to
determine if dialog is needed.
        * splash.h (SplashPage::Create): Add new command line parameter.



---

**Attachments:**

- [cinstall.diff](cinstall.diff) (application)
