# Re: patch to allow newlib to compile when winsup not present

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Fitzsimmons <fitzsim@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cgf@redhat.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-24T11:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1011901690.1187.55.camel@toggle](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1011901690.1187.55.camel@toggle) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/17-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/24/11-48-00)

On Thu, 2002-01-24 at 12:49, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Thu, Jan 24, 2002 at 12:07:15PM -0500, Thomas Fitzsimmons wrote:
> > On Wed, 2002-01-23 at 22:34, Robert Collins wrote:
> > >
> > > ===
> > > ----- Original Message -----
> > > From: "Thomas Fitzsimmons" <fitzsim@redhat.com>
> > > To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> > > Cc: <newlib@sources.redhat.com>
> > > Sent: Thursday, January 24, 2002 12:08 PM
> > > Subject: patch to allow newlib to compile when winsup not present
> > >
> > >
> > > > I've applied this patch to newlib, so that it will compile for the
> > > > i686-pc-cygwin target, when winsup is not in the source tree.
> > > > Previously, the newlib build failed because pthread_t was undefined.
> > >
> > >
> > > This is incorrect. Cygwin has pthread_kill, so you _will need_ the
> > > cygwin header files to compile newlib for i686-pc-cygwin, regardless of
> > > having winsup in the source tree or not.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Then would a better solution be to include
> > winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/types.h in the newlib distribution?
>
>
> What's wrong with saying that you need the winsup directory or a cygwin
> installation to compile the cygwin versions of newlib?
>


That is a possibility, but even in that case, the build shouldn't fail
with an obscure undefined symbol error at compile time.  If we're going
to require either the winsup directory, or a cygwin installation, there
should be checks for these at configuration time. However, usually,
newlib doesn't handle header dependencies in this way.

newlib typically includes system-specific headers (like types.h) in the
newlib distribution (like in newlib/libc/sys/cygwin/include).  Is there
any reason why this can't be done for the cygwin target?

Tom

-- 
Thomas Fitzsimmons
Red Hat Canada Limited        e-mail: fitzsim@redhat.com
2323 Yonge Street, Suite 300
Toronto, ON M4P2C9


