# Re: patch to allow newlib to compile when winsup not present

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Thomas Fitzsimmons <fitzsim@redhat.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-24T16:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1011917087.18172.9.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1011917087.18172.9.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/17-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/24/16-04-00)

Further to this,

IMO emulation & platform specific headers should be in the
winsup dir. libc and libm headers should be in newlib.

The pthread typedef's are emulation specific, not newlib specific, and I
strongly oppose them being moved to newlib. The function definitions
(like pthread_kill) however, are common to any libc, and thus belong in
newlib (IMO).

As for finding a winsup header/local system header, I think that it's
the users job - if they want to build newlib for cygwin, WITHOUT winsup,
then they need to add the appropriate -I to the passed CFLAGS line,
(unless there's a standard location that cross-header are found, like
/usr/local/i686-pc-cygwin/include/ ?) (I'm not a cross-gcc afficiondo).

Rob


On Fri, 2002-01-25 at 10:13, Robert Collins wrote:
> On Fri, 2002-01-25 at 06:48, Thomas Fitzsimmons wrote:
> > On Thu, 2002-01-24 at 12:49, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > What's wrong with saying that you need the winsup directory or a cygwin
> > > installation to compile the cygwin versions of newlib?
> > >
> >
> >
> > That is a possibility, but even in that case, the build shouldn't fail
> > with an obscure undefined symbol error at compile time.  If we're going
> > to require either the winsup directory, or a cygwin installation, there
> > should be checks for these at configuration time. However, usually,
> > newlib doesn't handle header dependencies in this way.
> >
> > newlib typically includes system-specific headers (like types.h) in the
> > newlib distribution (like in newlib/libc/sys/cygwin/include).  Is there
> > any reason why this can't be done for the cygwin target?
>
>
> Why should a cygwin-specific header be in the _newlib_ distribution? 
>
> Rob
>




