# Re: [PATCH]Package extention recognition (revision 1)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael A Chase <mchase@ix.netcom.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-24T18:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [015c01c1a54c$3a4bfac0$a100a8c0@mchasecompaq](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/015c01c1a54c$3a4bfac0$a100a8c0@mchasecompaq) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/24/18-59-00)

----- Original Message -----
From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 24, 2002 17:51
Subject: Re: [PATCH]Package extention recognition


> On Thu, Jan 24, 2002 at 05:48:35PM -0800, Michael A Chase wrote:
> > I noticed that find_tar_ext() always returns after checking for
>

".tar.bz2"
> > and ".tar.gz" so it never gets to the check for ".tar".  As long as I was
> > fixing that, it seemed like a good time to add ".cwp" as an accepted file
> > extension.
>
>
> Haven't we already debated this issue?  I don't see any reason to inflict
> a .cwp on the world and I can't imagine why we'd ever want a plain .tar
> rather than a .tar.bz2.


The last discussion I saw on ".cwp" kind of wandered off when someone
offered a patch that was more complicated than necessary.  It seemed like a
good idea (along with .deb or rpm) to avoid the next round of 'Why doesn't
the install I did with WinZip not work?', but I can easily change the patch
remove both.

The current un-patched code leaves off ".tar" inadvertently.

The revised patch is identical to the previous one except that the tests for
".cwp", and ".tar" are removed from find_tar_ext().
--
Mac :})
** I normally forward private questions to the appropriate mail list. **
Give a hobbit a fish and he eats fish for a day.
Give a hobbit a ring and he eats fish for an age.

Change (with .cwp and .tar removed):

2002-01-24  Michael A Chase <mchase@ix.netcom.com>

    * filemanip.cc (find_tar_ext): Clean up extensions tests.
    * fromcwd.cc (do_fromcwd): Try same extension as binary archive for -src
    archive before falling back to .tar.bz2 or .tar.gz.
    * install.cc (install_one_source): Add space between words in log()
call.



---

**Attachments:**

- [install.cc-patch](install.cc-patch) (application)
- [filemanip.cc-patch](filemanip.cc-patch) (application)
- [fromcwd.cc-patch](fromcwd.cc-patch) (application)
