# Re: [patch] Update build flags for new compiler feature

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-03T13:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4AC75235.1070403@gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4AC75235.1070403@gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/20-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/03/13-17-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> Btw., I also had to set --disable-__cxa_atexit in contrast to your
> --enable-__cxa_atexit.  If I don't do that, I get undefined reference
> errors (some dso_foo and cxa_foo functions) when building libstdc++.


  Yes, that's just a dumbass typo on my part.  I meant to fix it a version or
two ago but it slipped my mind and I didn't remember because it gets
suppressed somehow on a native build.

> Apparently.  There's no line containing __wrap__Znaj in config.log.


  Yeh, that proves I'm using the wrong sort of autoconf test.  Argh, thanks
for finding that out for me.

> > "-DUSE_CYGWIN_LIBSTDCXX_WRAPPERS=1" into the CFLAGS.  Meanwhile, I need to go
>
>
> Thanks, I'll try that.


  That really ought to work.  Let me know if it does; I'm still holding back
on committing that patch to the flags.

> While you're at it, there is another problem.  When building gcc-4.3.4
> as cross, the auto-host.h file contains
>
> ```
>   #ifndef USED_FOR_TARGET
>   /* #undef HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM */
>   #endif
>
> ```
>
> afterwards.  That's quite unlucky, since options.c contains an
> unconditional
>
>   int use_pe_aligned_common = HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM;
>
> So, right now I had to define HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM to 1 manually in
> auto-host.h.


  *headdesk*  Right, one more for the to-do list, thanks for finding it.

> And, while we're at it, how do I switch on the TSAWARE flag by default?


```
  I'm planning to add it to LINK_SPEC in gcc/config/i386/cygwin.h.

  I'll start building 4.3.4-2 on Monday.  Busy this weekend.

    cheers,
      DaveK
```



