# Re: [patch] Update build flags for new compiler feature

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-03T13:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091003133135.GB32613@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091003133135.GB32613@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/20-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/03/13-31-00)

On Oct  3 14:31, Dave Korn wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Btw., I also had to set --disable-__cxa_atexit in contrast to your
> > --enable-__cxa_atexit.  If I don't do that, I get undefined reference
> > errors (some dso_foo and cxa_foo functions) when building libstdc++.
>
>
>   Yes, that's just a dumbass typo on my part.  I meant to fix it a version or
> two ago but it slipped my mind and I didn't remember because it gets
> suppressed somehow on a native build.
>
> > Apparently.  There's no line containing __wrap__Znaj in config.log.
>
>
>   Yeh, that proves I'm using the wrong sort of autoconf test.  Argh, thanks
> for finding that out for me.
>
> > > "-DUSE_CYGWIN_LIBSTDCXX_WRAPPERS=1" into the CFLAGS.  Meanwhile, I need to go
> >
> >
> > Thanks, I'll try that.
>
>
>   That really ought to work.  Let me know if it does; I'm still holding back
> on committing that patch to the flags.


Will, do, but takes some time.  I'm just preparing the 1.7.0-62 release.
Creating the announcement takes all my nerves...

> > While you're at it, there is another problem.  When building gcc-4.3.4
> > as cross, the auto-host.h file contains
> >
> > ```
> >   #ifndef USED_FOR_TARGET
> >   /* #undef HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM */
> >   #endif
> >
> > ```
> >
> > afterwards.  That's quite unlucky, since options.c contains an
> > unconditional
> >
> >   int use_pe_aligned_common = HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM;
> >
> > So, right now I had to define HAVE_GAS_ALIGNED_COMM to 1 manually in
> > auto-host.h.
>
>
>   *headdesk*  Right, one more for the to-do list, thanks for finding it.
>
> > And, while we're at it, how do I switch on the TSAWARE flag by default?
>
>
> ```
>   I'm planning to add it to LINK_SPEC in gcc/config/i386/cygwin.h.
>
>   I'll start building 4.3.4-2 on Monday.  Busy this weekend.
> ```
>


'k.  However, if you could give me the required expression, I'll add it
to my cross gcc today :)

Oh, another question.  When unpacking your package, there's a file called
CYGWIN-PATCHES/pr38579.missing.diff.  The patch in that file hasn't been
applied to the sources.  Should it?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


