# Re: [PATCH fifo 0/2] Add support for duplex FIFOs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-04-29T19:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20190429190614.GL3383@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20190429190614.GL3383@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/25/23-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/04/29/19-06-00)

On Apr 29 18:42, Ken Brown wrote:
> On 4/29/2019 2:29 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 3/25/2019 7:06 PM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > The second patch in this series enables opening a FIFO with O_RDWR
> > > access.  The underlying Windows named pipe is created with duplex
> > > access, and its handle is made the I/O handle of the first client.
> > >
> > > I tested the patch in two ways.
> > >
> > > First,
> >
> >
> > [...]
> >
> > > The second test was the following sequence of commands in a bash
> > > shell:
> > >
> > > ```
> > > $ mkfifo foo
> > >
> > > $ exec 7<>foo
> > >
> > > $ echo blah > foo
> > > ```
> > >
> > >
> > > ```
> > > $ read bar <&7
> > >
> > > $ echo $bar
> > > blah
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > I just realized that this doesn't test *writing* to the fd of a FIFO
> > opened with O_RDWR.  If I change the third command to "echo blah
> > > &7", it does test this, and the write fails with ECOMM.  It turns
> > > out that the call to NtWriteFile in fhandler_fifo::raw_write fails
> > > with STATUS_PIPE_LISTENING.
> >
> >
> > Corinna, I'll try to debug this, but since I know you're about to be
> > AFK for a month, I thought I'd check to see if you have any idea why
> > this would happen.
>
>
> Actually, the answer might be obvious.  Looking at MSDN, it now seems
> clear to me that you can't do I/O on the server side of a pipe until
> the pipe connects to a client.  So I'll have to rethink how to deal
> with the O_RDWR case.


Sorry being late, but yeah, STATUS_PIPE_LISTENING means no client is
connected.  This is one of the more ugly implementation details of
Windows pipes.  There just isn't a generic buffer which can be filled
even if no one is listening yet on the other side :-P


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
