# Re: [RFC] POSIX Issue 8 2024 SUS V5 Cygwin Doc Changes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-08T16:45:09+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z36dhfYCP97fjUZx@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z36dhfYCP97fjUZx@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-45-09.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/08/15-45-09)

Hi Brian,

Hayy New Year!

On Jan  5 13:43, Brian Inglis wrote:
> - Move or copy the "new" entries to the SUS/POSIX section, update the
> description to SUS V5 POSIX Issue 8 2024 and IEEE and ISO/IEC (almost)
> Standards, update the id "std-susv4" and any refs.
> Should we copy and keep original entries under their original sections or not?
> Add any "din" entries; and decide if Notes are needed for any new entries?
>
> - Move "cut" entries out of the SUS/POSIX section to deprecated interfaces
> section and mark dropped from SUS V5 POSIX Issue 8 2024 (SUSv4)?
>
> - Decide how to check if any "non" entries are available in other packages,
> add Notes about them, and references in entries to add?
> If not available, add to Not Implemented section?
>
> What have I got wrong or missed, how should we proceed, anything else?


More or less spot on.  In my own words:

- There should be only one SUS section, referencing the latest issue.
```
  So this should be updated to "Single Unix Specification, Version 8".
  Whether or not we change the id from "std-susv4" to "std-susv5" is up
  to us, given it's usually not visible ion the created docs.  If it's
  simple as dirt, change it.

```

- Each function showing up in one of the other sections, but has been
```
  upgraded to an official SUS function should be moved to the SUS
  section.

```

- Deprectaed SUS functions from older SUS issues should be added to the
  std-deprec section and its title updated accordingly.

- SUS functions not implemented (yet) should be added to the std-notimpl
  section and its title updated accordingly.

Make sense?


Thanks,
Corinna


