# Re: [PATCH v4] Cygwin: winsup/doc/posix.xml: update to SUS V5, POSIX 2024, TOG Base Specs Issue 8, ISO/IEC DIS 9945

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-08T16:52:45+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z36fTdoM8eFAchEH@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z36fTdoM8eFAchEH@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/23-58-10.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/08/15-52-45)

On Jan  7 16:58, Brian Inglis wrote:
> Update anchor id and description to current version, year, issue, etc.
> Move new POSIX entries in other sections to the SUS/POSIX section.
> Add new POSIX entries from din entries.
> Add new entries with interfaces available in headers and packages.
> Add those missing to Not Implemented section, with mentions of headers,
> packages, etc.
>
> Move dropped entries out of the SUS/POSIX section to Deprecated
> Interfaces section and mark with (SUSv4).
>
> Double checking found some functions in the wrong categories which have
> been moved to the correct sections, and some functions out of order
> which have been reordered.
>
> Move circular TRIGl functions before hyperbolic TRIGh? entries to keep
> each together: should we keep them on separate lines out of order, so we
> can check if they exist, concatenate onto the same lines with slashes,
> or just add the suffixes /f/l on to the base entry?


Independently if we do this or not, I'd like to suggest one thing:

Please don't try to do everything in a single patch.  Creating the SUSv5
section and moving functions over from other sections is one thing.
Adding not-implemented functions is another thing.  Changing the order
of functions for whatever reason is another thing.

Smaller patches are easier to understand, review and handle :)


Thanks,
Corinna


