# Re: Declaration of crypt

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-06-09T12:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [0479db42-e977-24ae-fc35-407c5067d256@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0479db42-e977-24ae-fc35-407c5067d256@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/21-19-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/06/09/12-05-00)

On 6/9/2016 5:00 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Ken,
>
> On Jun  8 17:18, Ken Brown wrote:
> > According to Posix, including <unistd.h> should bring in the declaration of
> > crypt.  The glibc and FreeBSD headers are consistent with this, but Cygwin's
> > aren't.
> >
> > $ cat test.c
> > #include <unistd.h>
> >
> > int
> > main (void)
> > {
> > ```
> >   const char *key = NULL;
> >   const char *salt = NULL;
> >   crypt (key, salt);
> > ```
> >
> > }
> >
> > $ gcc -c test.c
> > test.c: In function ‘main’:
> > test.c:8:3: warning: implicit declaration of function ‘crypt’
> > [-Wimplicit-function-declaration]
> > ```
> >    crypt (key, salt);
> >    ^
> >
> > ```
> >
> > The attached patch is one way to fix this.  It means that cygwin-devel would
> > have to require libcrypt-devel.
> >
> > I'm not sure if I used the right feature-test macro in the patch.  It's
> > marked XSI by Posix, but using __XSI_VISIBLE didn't work.
>
>
> What do you mean by "didn't work"?  __XSI_VISIBLE should be the right
> thing to use.  Your application would have to define, e.g.,
> _XOPEN_SOURCE before including the file.


Ah, that's what I missed.  I tried defining __XSI_VISIBLE in the test 
file, and I still got the implicit declaration warning.  I see now, 
reading /usr/include/sys/features.h, that __XSI_VISIBLE is a private 
macro and shouldn't have been used in my test.

> Another point is the && defined(__CYGWIN__).  This should go away.
> We're trying to make the headers more standards compatible without
> going into too much detial what targat provides which function.


I wasn't sure that <crypt.h> was portable to all newlib targets.

> > P.S. Is cygwin-patches OK for this sort of thing, or should I have sent it
> > to the newlib list?
>
>
> Ideally to the newlib list, but no worries :)


OK, I'll do that next time.

Revised patch attached.

Ken



---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Make-unistd.h-declare-crypt.patch](0001-Make-unistd.h-declare-crypt.patch) (text)
