# Re: type mismatch on cpuset.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-03-07T00:09:34-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [cbc6009b-6aa0-69bd-e264-05e616f3721e@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/cbc6009b-6aa0-69bd-e264-05e616f3721e@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-09-34.thread.md#:~:text=2023/03/07/08-09-34)

[Redirected here from the main mailing list...]

Hi Corinna,

Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin wrote:
> Hi Mark,
>
> On Mar  6 07:57, Marco Atzeri via Cygwin wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > building latest gdal I noticed a type mismatch, that forced me to build
> > with "-fpermissive"
> >
> > on /usr/include/sys/cpuset.h
> >
> >   #define CPU_ALLOC(num)      __builtin_malloc (CPU_ALLOC_SIZE(num))
> >
> >
> > but on
> > https://linux.die.net/man/3/cpu_alloc
> >
> >   cpu_set_t *CPU_ALLOC(int num_cpus)
> >
> >
> > so void* versus cpu_set_t*
>
>
> Marco is correct.  cpuset.h was your pet project a while back.  Would
> you like to pick it up?  Maybe we should convert all the macros into
> type-safe inline functions, or macros calling type-safe (inline)
> functions, as on Linux as well as on BSD?


As far as I can tell from online docs, the CPU_SET(3) macros are still macros on 
Linux, though they are documented with prototypes as if they were functions.  I 
don't immediately see a need to change our cpuset.h for this.

I'm also uncertain what exactly you mean by "type-safe" in this context.  Could 
you please give me an example for one of the macros?

I desk-checked all the macros vs their prototypes and I believe CPU_ALLOC that 
Marco ran into is the only faulty one.  It could be fixed with a cast.  CPU_FREE's 
result is void so I should make sure __builtin_free() corresponds. 
CPU_ALLOC_SIZE's result is size_t and I believe the macro is correct as-is because 
it is an expression using untyped integers and sizeof()s, the latter are 
size_t-returning.

The other few macros that return results return int, and those are precisely the 
ones whose inline code uses an int variable to accumulate a result.

If there is some other consideration I'm not seeing, e.g. readability, please let 
me know.  Otherwise I don't really see a need for changes here (modulo casting 
return values properly where needed).

..mark


