# Re: [PATCH 0/5] Generate cygwin-api manpages

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-17T16:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150617162753.GN31537@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150617162753.GN31537@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-37-00-4.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/17/16-28-00)

On Jun 17 16:59, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 17/06/2015 14:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 17 13:37, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > This patch set changes the DocBook source XML for the Cygwin API reference to
> > > use refentry elements, and also generates man pages from that.
> > >
> > > Again, note that after this, the chunked html now has a page for each function,
> > > rather than one containing all functions.
> >
> >
> > Patchset approved, basically, except...
> >
> > The next cygwin.cygport file will explicitly exclude the man pages
> > section 1.  But it won't exclude section 3, and I'm rather not hot
> > on excluding each newly generated API file explicitly.
>
>
> Yes, I hadn't noticed that regex.3 manpage, which makes things a bit of a
> pain.
>
> But maybe you write in cygwin_devel_CONTENTS something like
> "--exclude=usr/share/man/ usr/share/man/man3/regex.3.gz
> usr/share/man/man7/regex.7.gz" ?


exclude?  This would require to move both files to cygwin-doc
as you outlined below.  It would essentially remove all man pages
from the cygwin core packages and then we exclude usr/share/man,
as you outlined below as well.

So...

> > Do you have an idea how far away we are from including the cygwin-doc
> > package into the cygwin package set?  I'm not planning a new release
> > very soon, so we can coordinate that without pressure.
>
>
> After this patch set, the remaining things are:
>
> * newlib libc and libm .info documentation
>
> I think this just needs 'make info' adding to the .cygport, as newlib
> doesn't build this on 'make all'


```
  libc.info and libm.info are built by default, but they are not
  installed with `make install'

```

> ```
> * intro.1 and intro.3 man pages for Cygwin, handwritten
>
> If these are worth keeping, this is straightforward
>
> * Cygwin User's Guide and API reference texinfo, generated from the DocBook
> ```
>
> XML
>
> as is this


```
  Isn't the HTML documentation sufficient?  I'm not opposed to
  keeping the texinfo's, just wondering.
```

>
> * man pages for newlib functions
>
> But this is a substantial piece of work.  Currently, I'm not even sure how
> this can be done in an upstreamable way.
>
> I am experimenting with building an alternative to the makedoc tool, which
> generates DocBook XML rather than .texinfo, which can then be processed into
> manpages and other formats, but this is far from complete.
>
>
> If the suggestion above doesn't work, I guess possible approaches to
> coordination are:
>
> * Move regex.[37] from cygwin-devel to cygwin-doc, and exclude
> /usr/share/man


... this sounds good to me.

> * Assuming I can finish the first 3 items on that list before the next
> cygwin release, move the newlib manpages to a new package
> (man-pages-newlib?) and make that a dependency of cygwin-doc.


As I wrote, no stress.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
