# Re: [PATCH] Hide sethostname() in unistd.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-17T20:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [5581D7C4.1000207@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/5581D7C4.1000207@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/16-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/17/20-25-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun 17 07:38, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jun 16 18:27, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > Found during an experimental build of busybox:
> > > >
> > > > The sethostname() prototype in /usr/include/sys/unistd.h is enabled also on
> > > > Cygwin.
> > > > It should be disabled because Cygwin does not provide this function.
> > > >
> > > > Christian
> > > >
> > >
> > > What about implementing sethostname instead?
> > >
> > > ```
> > >    extern "C" int
> > >    sethostname (const char *name, size_t len)
> > > ```
> > >
> > > ...
> >
> > I didn't consider this as an alternative because I guessed that it is
> > intentional that sethostname is missing.
> > (it is not a typical that someone wants to use Cygwin to change the name of
> > a Windows machine)
>
> You're right there.  But, we have a lot of interfaces defined in newlib
> headers which are not available on all platforms, but we're not
> explicitely filtering them per platform.


I see. Then let's forget the patch.


> Afaics, the problem is the configuration of busybox, not unistd.h.
> Checking for prototypes in headers is not sufficient to check for the
> availablility of functions, only for the availability of the prototype.
> The configuration should also try a link check on the function with
> AC_CHECK_FUNC or something like that.


Busybox does not use autoconf or similar. It requires manual platform 
specific configuration which does not yet support a missing 
sethostname(). After adding HAVE_SETHOSTNAME manually and some other 
minor additions, busybox (which many commands enabled) compiles and 
works reasonably.
Would ITP make sense ?

Christian


