# Serial programming

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jacek Trzcinski <jacek@certum.pl> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sources.redhat.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-23T05:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3B0BAE8D.EC08D1F8@certum.pl](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3B0BAE8D.EC08D1F8@certum.pl) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/23/05-48-00)

Hi,
I have created patch to serial device which implements ioctl function
allowing
manipulate RTS and DTR line and reading modem lines. I will send it when
I sign copyright
assignment form.
I didn't do two things in my patch about I would like discuss here.
First remarks I shared
with Corinna Vinschen and She suggested send e-mail here.

1) To read input queue there should be use constant
FIONREAD (information taken from different sources) but cygwin occupy it
for
socket software !(it is macro). Constant TIOCINQ I have taken from linux
where it is equal FIONREAD(FIONREAD is not occupied in linux like in
cygwin). As Corinna remarked, this macro
expands to a constant expression but including asm/socket.h in serial
programming seems to make not much sense. She suggested (I support her)
to create asm/ioctls.h file like in Linux.

2) Next matter concerns device name convention. In cygwin one may use
/dev/com1 or /dev/ttyS1 and so on. (what for is utilizing /dev/comx
devices I do not
know - it is not portable to linux).
I think also that number of devices should start from 0 not from 1 thus
devices shold be
numbered /dev/ttyS0, /dev/ttyS1 and so on like in linux because again it
is not portable.
Somebody who had access to /dev/ttyS0 in linux will have not in cygwin !

Best regards
Jacek


