# Re: Serial programming

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sources.redhat.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-23T07:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010523165125.Y10118@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010523165125.Y10118@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/23/07-51-00)

On Wed, May 23, 2001 at 02:35:25PM +0200, Jacek Trzcinski wrote:
> Hi,
> I have created patch to serial device which implements ioctl function
> allowing
> manipulate RTS and DTR line and reading modem lines. I will send it when
> I sign copyright
> assignment form.
> I didn't do two things in my patch about I would like discuss here.
> First remarks I shared
> with Corinna Vinschen and She suggested send e-mail here.
>
> 1) To read input queue there should be use constant
> FIONREAD (information taken from different sources) but cygwin occupy it
> for
> socket software !(it is macro). Constant TIOCINQ I have taken from linux
> where it is equal FIONREAD(FIONREAD is not occupied in linux like in
> cygwin). As Corinna remarked, this macro
> expands to a constant expression but including asm/socket.h in serial
> programming seems to make not much sense. She suggested (I support her)
> to create asm/ioctls.h file like in Linux.


However, to be least intrusive we could also include <asm/socket.h>
in sys/termios.h to accomodate applications needs and to be able
to define TIOCINQ as FIONREAD. That doesn't look nice, though.

> 2) Next matter concerns device name convention. In cygwin one may use
> /dev/com1 or /dev/ttyS1 and so on. (what for is utilizing /dev/comx
> devices I do not
> know - it is not portable to linux).
> I think also that number of devices should start from 0 not from 1 thus
> devices shold be
> numbered /dev/ttyS0, /dev/ttyS1 and so on like in linux because again it
> is not portable.
> Somebody who had access to /dev/ttyS0 in linux will have not in cygwin !


I'm not quite sure about this point. A linux programmer has to port
his application anyway, but existing ported applications using
/dev/ttyS1,S2,... would suddenly break. I don't think it's worth
that.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


