# Re: Serial programming

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-05-23T12:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010523151004.F12543@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010523151004.F12543@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/05/23/12-11-00)

On Wed, May 23, 2001 at 04:51:25PM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Wed, May 23, 2001 at 02:35:25PM +0200, Jacek Trzcinski wrote:
> > Hi,
> > I have created patch to serial device which implements ioctl function
> > allowing
> > manipulate RTS and DTR line and reading modem lines. I will send it when
> > I sign copyright
> > assignment form.
> > I didn't do two things in my patch about I would like discuss here.
> > First remarks I shared
> > with Corinna Vinschen and She suggested send e-mail here.
> >
> > 1) To read input queue there should be use constant
> > FIONREAD (information taken from different sources) but cygwin occupy it
> > for
> > socket software !(it is macro). Constant TIOCINQ I have taken from linux
> > where it is equal FIONREAD(FIONREAD is not occupied in linux like in
> > cygwin). As Corinna remarked, this macro
> > expands to a constant expression but including asm/socket.h in serial
> > programming seems to make not much sense. She suggested (I support her)
> > to create asm/ioctls.h file like in Linux.
>
>
> However, to be least intrusive we could also include <asm/socket.h>
> in sys/termios.h to accomodate applications needs and to be able
> to define TIOCINQ as FIONREAD. That doesn't look nice, though.
>
> > 2) Next matter concerns device name convention. In cygwin one may use
> > /dev/com1 or /dev/ttyS1 and so on. (what for is utilizing /dev/comx
> > devices I do not
> > know - it is not portable to linux).
> > I think also that number of devices should start from 0 not from 1 thus
> > devices shold be
> > numbered /dev/ttyS0, /dev/ttyS1 and so on like in linux because again it
> > is not portable.
> > Somebody who had access to /dev/ttyS0 in linux will have not in cygwin !
>
>
> I'm not quite sure about this point. A linux programmer has to port
> his application anyway, but existing ported applications using
> /dev/ttyS1,S2,... would suddenly break. I don't think it's worth
> that.


I wonder how many applications are actually using this.  I think I only added
it recently.  I didn't stop to consider the implications of ttyS1 != ttyS0.

Maybe a survey of the cygwin mailing list is in order?  I generally don't like
to break backwards compatibility but if there is no one using this functionality
then maybe it is no big deal.

cgf


