# Re: fileutils-4.0-3

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-14T08:08:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010614170757.A1144@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010614170757.A1144@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/14/08-08-00)

On Thu, Jun 14, 2001 at 11:41:00AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Wednesday, 13 June, 2001 Corinna Vinschen vinschen@redhat.com wrote:
>
> > > Wednesday, 13 June, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin@cygwin.com wrote:
> > >
> > > CV> Typically it's the other way around. If a Win32 application opens
> > > CV> a file using the `CreateFile' call, it has exclusive access to the
> > > CV> file while it's opened. If the application want's to share the
> > > CV> file with other apps, it can do that by giving additional flags
> > > CV> to `CreateFile' (FILE_SHARE_READ, FILE_SHARE_WRITE). Cygwin's
> > > CV> open(2) call uses these flags by default.
> > >
> > > well, CreateFile() accepts 0 as second argument, which is what we
> > > need-- just query information no matter if anyone opened file in
> > > DENYALL mode. i've just tested it on nt4.0 -- it works fine.
> > >
> > > the only question is whether we should add new parameter to
> > > fhandler::open(), say 'int cygwin_flags', or define new flag in
> > > fcntl.h? for me, the first one looks preferable.
> >
>
>
> CV> Wow. I just read the MSDN entry of CreateFile and I must admit
> CV> that I always slipped over that sentence without reading it.
> CV> It seems obvious now. If that really works (as you state),
> CV> it would be the ultimate solution for `fstat'.
>
> CV> I think you're right using some internal flag. It's not needed
> CV> to create a new fcntl flag.
>
> patch attached. i was a bit confused to discover, however, that
> stat_worker works somehow without it. AFAICS from stat_worker code,
> if it cannot open file, it still tries to get as much information as
> it can, file size and times included. so, du works for me either with
> or without this patch.


The patch is fine, IMO.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


