# Re: [PATCH] include/cygwin/limits.h: add XATTR_{NAME,SIZE,LIST}_MAX

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Philippe Cerfon <philcerf@gmail.com> |
| **Date** | 2023-06-16T21:49:27+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZIy8x7cxIQhTmO9U@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZIy8x7cxIQhTmO9U@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/30/20-04-46.thread.md#:~:text=2023/06/16/19-49-27)

On Jun 16 17:43, Philippe Cerfon wrote:
> Hey.
>
> On Fri, Jun 16, 2023 at 5:04 PM Corinna Vinschen
> <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> wrote:
> > Oh well. Now that I see it in real life, my idea to use the entire
> > expression inline wasn't that great, it seems...
>
>
> ^^
>
>
> > I didn't want to keep MAX_EA_NAME_LEN because now that we have an
> > official name for the value, having an unofficial name using a different
> > naming convention is a bit weird.
> >
> > On the other hand, having a macro for the expression certainly looks
> > much cleaner.  Also, only one place to change (should a change ever be
> > necessary).
>
>
> Does both make sense.
>
>
> > Sorry about that.
>
>
> No worries :-)
>
>
> > What do you think about something like _XATTR_NAME_MAX_ONDISK_?
>
>
> Really with trailing/leading underscores? If you try to keep it out of
> the "official namespace", then I'd would perhaps make more sense to
> mark this as being cygwin specific like CYGWIN_XATTR_NAME_MAX_ONDISK
> or so?
> Also - may be nitpicking - but storage is not really guaranteed to be
> a disk anymore. Maybe ONSTORAGE instead? But admittedly ONDISK sounds
> more common ("on disk format", etc.).


You're right, of course.  Disk is just like everyone talks about it.
Even a SSD has "disk" in it's name :)

> > I can also just push the patches and we discuss this further afterwards,
> > your call.
>
>
> Well you know the naming convention used in your code much better than I do.
>
> Attached patches use _XATTR_NAME_MAX_ONDISK_ as you proposed.
>
> Just pick whichever name you like best, and either tell me and I
> provide a new patch, or just sed 's/_XATTR_NAME_MAX_ONDISK_/foobar/g'
> (+ maybe align text wrapping of comments if necessary).


Let's keep it at that.  I pushed your patchset.


Thanks!
Corinna


