# Re: [PATCH] Add getmntent_r

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Yaakov (Cygwin/X) <yselkowitz@users.sourceforge.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-07-18T10:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [50068E29.6060302@users.sourceforge.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/50068E29.6060302@users.sourceforge.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/05/05-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/07/18/10-21-00)

Somehow this one fell through the cracks.  Picking up where we left off:

On 2012-06-06 02:33, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun  5 21:29, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > The string returned into buf is in the following format:
> >
> > mnt_fsname\0mnt_dir\0mnt_type\0mnt_opts\0mnt_freq" "mnt_passno\0
>
>
> Yes, but this is not something inherent to the functionality of
> getmntent_r, it's just residue from the way getmntent_r works.  It reads
> a line from /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab into the buffer via fgets:
>
>    mnt_fsname\tmnt_dir\tmnt_type\tmnt_opts\tmnt_freq\n
>
> and then creates the content of mntbuf from there, replacing the \t with
> \0 as it goes along.  So it starts with mnt_opts and mnt_freq strings in
> buf, but only to sscanf them into their respective mntbuf->mnt_opts and
> mntbuf->mnt_freq members.


Since glibc is getting this information from the kernel, that makes sense.

> In case of Cygwin this is not needed since we don't read from the file
> but from the internal datastructure.  There's no reason to create
> garbage in buf just because this is by chance the layout the buffer gets
> when operating under Linux.
>
> The *important* thing is that buf contains the strings the members of
> mntbuf points to.


OK, revised patch attached.

> > glibc makes no attempt to verify buf or mntbuf; if either of them
> > are not initialized or too small, you're in "undefined behaviour"
> > territory (aka SEGV :-).
>
>
> You're basically right.  But it won't SEGV if buf is too small.


By "too small", I meant sizeof(buf) < buflen, or sizeof(mntbuf) < 
sizeof(struct mntent); then glibc definitely does SEGV.


Yaakov



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-getmntent_r.patch](cygwin-getmntent_r.patch) (application)
