# Compiler warnings when building latest cygwin cvs with gcc-4.6 (0/2)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ryan Johnson <ryan.johnson@cs.utoronto.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-03-29T14:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4F747373.5030605@cs.utoronto.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4F747373.5030605@cs.utoronto.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/03/29/14-36-00)

Hi all

While trying to build the cygwin dll from source, I accidentally left my 
home-built gcc-4.6 in PATH... and it complains loudly about all kinds of 
things, some of which might actually be of interest. I'll follow up 
shortly with two patches that fix those problems in a backwards 
compatible way, in case this provides a improvement in code quality (and 
future-proofing for when we upgrade cygwin's gcc4).

The patched code compiles cleanly under both cygwin's gcc4 and my 
gcc-4.6.2, but the latter produces a broken cygwin1.dll. I haven't tried 
to figure out what goes wrong, since I don't know what changes went into 
cygwin's gcc4 to make it work properly in the first place. It could be 
something as simple as PATH/LD_LIBRARY_PATH...

Patch 1: fix function attribute conflicts
Patch 2: fix compiler misc. warnings

NOTE: the warnings patch applies safely, but with fuzz, if the 
attributes patch has already been applied. If you're paranoid, apply the 
warnings patch first.

Overview of changes:

1a. Conflicting function definition errors, due to functions declared 
with __attribute__((regparm(...))) and later defined without it. AFAIK, 
if both declaration and definition exist for a function, the definition 
must either give no attributes or all must match the declaration. This 
includes the __stdcall attribute...

1b. Related to #1, some member functions seem to have the wrong regparm 
number, probably somebody forgot about ``this'' when counting args. Even 
more strangely, the compiler complained about fhandler_{disk_file,tty}, 
but not fhandler_{socket,virtual}, even though the header file declares 
all as regparm(1). A similar story applies to fchown.

1c. Constructs like this:
> void __stdcall foo(int,int)  __attribute__ ((regparm (2)));
>
> void __stdcall foo(int,int)
> {
>     ...

Can be replaced by this:
> void __stdcall  __attribute__ ((regparm (2)))
> foo(int,int)
> {
>     ...


2a. Several variables are set but never used. While we could silence the 
compiler by marking them unused (see below), it's probably best to just 
remove them to avoid atrophied code. I decided which to do on a 
case-by-case basis, best-effort.
> - void *unused_ptr = ...;
> +void * __attribute__((unused)) unused_ptr = ...;


2b. There's one array out of bounds warning in the pointer arithmetic 
for fhandler_disk_file.cc near line 813; after consulting ntdll.h, I'm 
pretty sure the fix below is correct.
> ```
>        struct {
>          FILE_FULL_EA_INFORMATION ffei;
>          char buf[sizeof (NFS_V3_ATTR) + sizeof (fattr3)];
>        } ffei_buf;
>        ffei_buf.ffei.NextEntryOffset = 0;
>        ffei_buf.ffei.Flags = 0;
>        ffei_buf.ffei.EaNameLength = sizeof (NFS_V3_ATTR) - 1;
>        ffei_buf.ffei.EaValueLength = sizeof (fattr3);
>        strcpy (ffei_buf.ffei.EaName, NFS_V3_ATTR);
> ```
>
> -      fattr3 *nfs_attr = (fattr3 *) (ffei_buf.ffei.EaName
> -                                    + ffei_buf.ffei.EaNameLength + 1);
> +      fattr3 *nfs_attr = (fattr3 *) (ffei_buf.buf + 
> ffei_buf.ffei.EaNameLength);
>        memset (nfs_attr, 0, sizeof (fattr3));


Regards,
Ryan


