# Re: ntsec patch #4: passwd and group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-17T19:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20021117224418.0083ac70@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20021117224418.0083ac70@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/17/19-57-00)

Corinna,

Almost same as last week, but with the diff and ChangeLog against current CVS.
I also made a small change.

Pierre

At 09:52 AM 11/15/2002 -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Corinna,
>
> Here is the ntsec patch #4 diff. As discussed before, the main motivation
> was to handle more robustly incomplete passwd and group files.
> In the process I fixed some bugs in related code and added
> getpwsid and getgrsid.
>
> This does not try to completely address the issue of invalid pointers
> after a re-read of passwd and group, that will be for later.
>
> Note that there is a small bug fix in the getgroup32 code from
> yesterday and some streamlining in is_grp_member.


(bug is already fixed in CVS)


2002/11/18  Pierre Humblet  <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* security.h: Declare getpwsid and getgrsid. Undeclare 
	internal_getpwent. Define DEFAULT_UID_NT. Change DEFAULT_GID.
	* passwd.cc (getpwsid): Create.
	(internal_getpwent): Suppress.
	(read_etc_passwd): Make static. Rewrite the code for the completion
	line. Set curr_lines to 0.
	(parse_pwd): Change type to static int. Return 0 for short lines.
	(add_pwd_line): Pay attention to the value of parse_pwd.     
	(search_for): Do not look for nor return the DEFAULT_UID.
	* grp.cc (read_etc_group): Make static. Free gr_mem and set 
	curr_lines to 0. Always call add_pwd_line. Rewrite the code for the 
	completion line.
	(parse_grp): If grp.gr_mem is empty, set it to &null_ptr.
	Never NULL gr_passwd. 
	(getgrgid32): Only return the default if ntsec is off and the gid is 
	ILLEGAL_GID.
	* sec_helper.cc (cygsid::get_id): Use getpwsid and getgrsid;
	(cygsid_getfrompw): Clean up last line.
	(cygsid_getfromgr): Ditto.
	(is_grp_member): Use getpwuid32 and getgrgid32.
	* uinfo.cc (internal_getlogin): Set DEFAULT_GID at start.
	Use getpwsid. Move the read of /etc/group after the second access 
	of /etc/passwd. Change some debug_printf. 


---

**Attachments:**

- [pwd.diff](pwd.diff) (text)
