# Re: fileutils-4.0-3

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | egor duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-06-17T04:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20258602010.20010617153433@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20258602010.20010617153433@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/00-41-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/17/04-36-00)

Hi!

Thursday, 14 June, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:

> > > > well, CreateFile() accepts 0 as second argument, which is what we
> > > > need-- just query information no matter if anyone opened file in
> > > > DENYALL mode. i've just tested it on nt4.0 -- it works fine.
> > > >
> > > > the only question is whether we should add new parameter to
> > > > fhandler::open(), say 'int cygwin_flags', or define new flag in
> > > > fcntl.h? for me, the first one looks preferable.
> > >
> >
> >
> > CV> Wow. I just read the MSDN entry of CreateFile and I must admit
> > CV> that I always slipped over that sentence without reading it.
> > CV> It seems obvious now. If that really works (as you state),
> > CV> it would be the ultimate solution for `fstat'.
> >
> > CV> I think you're right using some internal flag. It's not needed
> > CV> to create a new fcntl flag.
> >
> > patch attached. i was a bit confused to discover, however, that
> > stat_worker works somehow without it. AFAICS from stat_worker code,
> > if it cannot open file, it still tries to get as much information as
> > it can, file size and times included. so, du works for me either with
> > or without this patch.
>


CV> The patch is fine, IMO.

unfortunately, when file resides on a remote share,
CreateFile (fname,0,...,OPEN_EXISTING,...) returns valid handle even
if file doesn't exist! i've seen this on nt4, share is nt4 too. just
try to 'touch //server/share/non-exiting-file' -- it prints "file
doesn't exist" instead of creating it.

this patch is supposed to work around it. Can anybody test it in
w9x/w2k/samba environments?

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19
query-open-2.ChangeLog
query-open-2.diff



---

**Attachments:**

- [query-open-2.ChangeLog](query-open-2.ChangeLog) (text)
- [query-open-2.diff](query-open-2.diff) (text)
