# Re: [patch] support -gdwarf-2 when creating cygwin1.dbg

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-04-18T13:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20070418132315.GA5262@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20070418132315.GA5262@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/04/18/13-23-00)

On Wed, Apr 18, 2007 at 06:17:59AM -0700, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > Thanks for doing this.  Please check in.  Can we switch to dwarf-2 by
> > default in the cygwin makefile(s)?
>
>
> I thought about that, but the problem is anything you do to *FLAGS in
> winsup/cygwin won't affect flags used in the other dirs like libiberty
> or newlib, and so unless you set CXXFLAGS and CFLAGS when you do
> toplevel configure, you'll end up with a mish-mash of some stabs and
> some DW2 in the .dbg file.


So, maybe a top-level configure option would be useful?  At the very least
we can get rid of the -gstabs specific use in configure.

> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > As long as we use a 3.x or 4.0.x gcc it should be ok.  Later gcc's
> > explicitely switch off the generation of a DW_CFA_offset column in the
> > .debug_frame CIE header information, which breaks backtracing in GDB.
>
>
> Hmm, I think I read something about that on the gcc list.  Is this just
> a case of gcc switching to doing TheActualRightThing and gdb not having
> being updated yet?
>
> > There's an explicit
> >
> > #define DWARF2_UNWIND_INFO 0
> >
> > in gcc/config/i386/cygming.h right now.  The accompanying comment is
>
>
> Aren't we talking about two different things here?  That's for unwinding
> during exception handling, but you can still leave that at 0 (and use
> --enable-sjlj-exceptions) and still get the benefit of -gdwarf-2 for
> gdb's consumption.


IIRC, this is turned on because of funkiness with exception unwinding in
DLLs.

cgf


