# Re: [PATCH] Preserve order of dlopen'd modules in dll_list::topsort

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-02-28T15:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170228152334.GA13542@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170228152334.GA13542@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../25/16-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/02/28/15-23-00)

Hi David,

On Feb 28 11:48, David Allsopp wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 27 17:13, David Allsopp wrote:
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Feb 25 16:27, David Allsopp wrote:
> > > > > This patch (below - I hope I have managed to format this email
> > > > > correctly) alters the behaviour of dll_list::topsort to preserve
> > > > > the order of dlopen'd units.
> > > > > [...]
> > > > > This patch is licensed under 2-clause BSD as per
> > > > > winsup/CONTRIBUTORS, Copyright (c) 2017, MetaStack Solutions Ltd.
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > Do you really want to make it (c) MetaStack?
>
>
> Oh, I was assuming that there would just be an implied mapping! Simple is best (MetaStack is just me, anyway!), so the previous patch and this fixup may be merged as my personal copyright, yes.
>
> <snip>
> > ```
> >   if (loaded_dlls > 0)
> >     dlopen_deps = (dll**) cmalloc (HEAP_2_DLL, maxdeps*sizeof (dll*));
> >   while ((d = d->next))
> >     {
> >       [...]
> >     }
> >   if (dlopen_deps)
> >     cfree (dlopen_deps);
> >
> > ```
> >
> > Do you want to tweak your patch accordingly?
>
>
> That's much neater - attached is a fixup (which obviously looks a lot clearer with git diff --ignore-all-space)


Applied and pushed.  I took the liberty to add two formatting tweaks,
as well as most of the description of your OP for the log message,
and squashed this into a single patch.

I'll uploaded new developer snapshots to https://cygwin.com/snapshots/
containing your patch for testing today.  This might take a while since
I have trouble with my cable provider and my upload speed is currently
almost 0 :-P


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
