# Re: tracing malloc/free call

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-01-16T19:50:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150116195029.GJ3122@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150116195029.GJ3122@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/01/16/19-50-00)

On Jan 16 18:33, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> On 1/16/2015 5:22 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan 16 16:44, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jan 16 15:23, Marco Atzeri wrote:
> > > > Attached patch that allows tracking of original caller,
> > > > for the 4 memory allocation calls.
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks for the patch, but it won't work nicely either this way.  The
> > > problem is that, in theory, the code has to differ between internal and
> > > external callers.  Internal callers (that is, Cygwin functions itself)
> > > don't hop into the function via _sigfe/_sigbe.  Thus the output for
> > > internal callers of malloc/free is now wrong with your patch.
> >
>
>
> I missed that point. ;-)
> First time I look at these inside details of cygwin


Hopefully not your last :)  Feel free to ask on the devs list if you
have questions about the code.

> > > The solution for this problem would be a test which checks if the return
> > > address is the _sigbe function and if so, returns *(_my_tls.stackptr-1),
> > > otherwise __builtin_return_address(0).  However, the symbol _sigbe is
> > > not exported since, so far, it was only used inside _sigfe.  This needs
> > > a bit of tweaking.  I'll have a look.
> >
> >
> > I applied a patch to print the right caller address.  I created a new
> > macro caller_return_address() for reuse, should we have a desire to
> > print the caller address in other parts of the code.
> >
> > I'm going to create a snapshot with this change.  Please give it
> > a try.
>
>
> It works like charm.
> Much more easy to find misalignment between
> malloc/calloc/realloc and free calls


I'm glad it works for you, too.

Btw., did you see my PM?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
