# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: add api version check to c++ malloc struct override.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-08-04T11:07:20-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [e2c92437-eec7-c7f7-5eae-3500e574bd78@jdrake.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/e2c92437-eec7-c7f7-5eae-3500e574bd78@jdrake.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/19-18-31.thread.md#:~:text=2025/08/04/18-07-20)

On Mon, 4 Aug 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> On Aug  2 11:18, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > This prevents memory corruption if a newer app or dll is used with an
> > older cygwin dll.  This is an unsupported scenario, but it's still a
> > good idea to avoid corrupting memory if possible.
> >
> > Fixes: 7d5c55faa1 ("Cygwin: add wrappers for newer new/delete overloads")
> > Co-authored-by: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> > Signed-off-by: Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com>
> > ---
> > ```
> >  winsup/cygwin/globals.cc                 |  4 +--
> >  winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/version.h   |  3 ++
> >  winsup/cygwin/lib/_cygwin_crt0_common.cc | 38 +++++++++++++-----------
> >  3 files changed, 26 insertions(+), 19 deletions(-)
> > ```
> >
>
>
> LGTM, please push.


Pushed.

> Now for the question if we should keep this with 3.7, or if it makes
> sense to backport to the 3.6 branch.
>
> I'm not sure.
>
> Theoretically this change doesn't change anything as long as libstdc++
> and gcc didn't catch up.  So it's no functional change for existing
> apps, but it would prepare newly build apps to the new compiler and
> libstdc++ lib builds.
>
> OTOH, as long as it's only in the non-released build, we have still time
> to fix things.  The fixes necessary due to introducing this right with a
> bug in 1.7.0-49 were not much fun.  It would be great if we already had
> a gcc/libstdc++ build to test against before a release...
>
> What do you think?


My gut feeling is that this is a "major version"-type change.  The missing
export failures on downgrade and the api version bump (which iirc would
conflict if backported to 3.6, I think there was another api version
before this on 3.7 that is not in 3.6).

For testing, I have
https://github.com/jeremyd2019/cygwin/releases/tag/cxx-test2 which has:

cygstdc++-6.{dll,dbg} built with gcc-13.4.0-1.src.patch adding wrap
arguments.

newwrappers.spec which can be used with "g++ -specs newwrappers.spec ..."

I think you can actually
cp newwrappers.spec /usr/lib/gcc/x86_64-pc-cygwin/specs
to have it used by default.

testnew.cpp where I was messing around with this, nothing really
groundbreaking.



