# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: add api version check to c++ malloc struct override.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-08-04T20:49:32+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aJEAvIpViSmK0-65@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aJEAvIpViSmK0-65@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/19-18-31.thread.md#:~:text=2025/08/04/18-49-32)

On Aug  4 11:07, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mon, 4 Aug 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Aug  2 11:18, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > This prevents memory corruption if a newer app or dll is used with an
> > > older cygwin dll.  This is an unsupported scenario, but it's still a
> > > good idea to avoid corrupting memory if possible.
> > >
> > > Fixes: 7d5c55faa1 ("Cygwin: add wrappers for newer new/delete overloads")
> > > Co-authored-by: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> > > Signed-off-by: Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com>
> > > ---
> > > ```
> > >  winsup/cygwin/globals.cc                 |  4 +--
> > >  winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/version.h   |  3 ++
> > >  winsup/cygwin/lib/_cygwin_crt0_common.cc | 38 +++++++++++++-----------
> > >  3 files changed, 26 insertions(+), 19 deletions(-)
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > LGTM, please push.
>
>
> Pushed.
>
> > Now for the question if we should keep this with 3.7, or if it makes
> > sense to backport to the 3.6 branch.
> >
> > I'm not sure.
> >
> > Theoretically this change doesn't change anything as long as libstdc++
> > and gcc didn't catch up.  So it's no functional change for existing
> > apps, but it would prepare newly build apps to the new compiler and
> > libstdc++ lib builds.
> >
> > OTOH, as long as it's only in the non-released build, we have still time
> > to fix things.  The fixes necessary due to introducing this right with a
> > bug in 1.7.0-49 were not much fun.  It would be great if we already had
> > a gcc/libstdc++ build to test against before a release...
> >
> > What do you think?
>
>
> My gut feeling is that this is a "major version"-type change.  The missing
> export failures on downgrade and the api version bump (which iirc would
> conflict if backported to 3.6, I think there was another api version
> before this on 3.7 that is not in 3.6).


Good point.


Thanks,
Corinna


