# Re: regtool help/version patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-03T07:27:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020603142753.6790.qmail@web20005.mail.yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020603142753.6790.qmail@web20005.mail.yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/03/07-27-00)


```diff
--- Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
```

> On Sun, Jun 02, 2002 at 10:58:33PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Jun 02, 2002 at 09:45:30PM -0500, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > > 2002-06-02  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>
> > >
> > > 	* regtool.cc (prog_name): New global variable.
> > > 	(longopts): Ditto.
> > > 	(opts): Ditto.
> > > 	(usage): Standardize usage output. Rearrange/add descriptions.
> > > 	(print_version): New function.
> > > 	(main): Accomodate longopts and new --help, --version options.
> > > 	Add check for (_argv[optind+1] == NULL).
> >
> >
> > Applied.
> >
> > Thanks, as always.
>
>
> Joshua, it just occurred to me that you don't seem to be patching the
> .sgml documentation when you make a change to a utility.
>
> Do you think you could take a run over the utils.sgml file and see
> if there are missing options that could be added?  Also, if you're
> adding examples to the output then utils.sgml would be a good place
> for that, too.
>
> cgf


I was going to try to get all the --help/--version patches in for the
next release, then patch utils.sgml at leisure. My logic is that the
binaries are hard to change, but the using-utils.html page and the
cygwin-doc package (which I have full control over) are easy. Also I
may have a lot of questions on certain explanations in utils.sgml
(about, for example, setfacl or strace) that really are not related to
the patches but could slow down the patching if I were working on it at 
the same time.

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com


