# Re: Name aliasing in security.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-06-03T19:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20020603223130.007f6e10@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20020603223130.007f6e10@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/30/19-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/03/19-37-00)

At 07:06 PM 6/3/2002 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Thu, May 30, 2002 at 09:57:40PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > a) keep lookup_name() as it is?
> > b) remove it entirely?
>
>
> I think b) is the way to go.  IMHO we should deprecate using ntsec
> w/o SID in the passwd/group files.


Here it is. Lots of trivial changes. Tested by running chown.

Pierre

2002-06-03  Pierre Humblet <pierre.humblet@ieee.org>

	* sec_helper.cc (lookup_name): Suppress.
	* security.cc (alloc_sd): Remove logsrv argument.
	Remove two calls to lookup_name.
	(set_security_attribute): Remove logsrv argument.
	Remove logsrv argument in call to alloc_sd.
	(set_nt_attribute): Remove logsrv argument.
	Remove logsrv argument in call to set_security_attribute.
	(set_file_attribute): Remove logsrv argument.
	Remove logsrv argument in call to set_nt_attribute.
	(set_file_attribute): Remove logsrv argument.
	Remove logsrv argument in call to set_file_attribute.
	* syscalls.cc (chown_worker): Remove logserver argument in
	call to set_file_attribute.
	(chmod): Ditto.
	* shm.cc (shmget): Remove logsrv argument in call to alloc_sd.
	* uinfo.cc (internal_getlogin): Replace calls to
	lookup_name by call to LookupAccountName.
	* security.h: Remove logsrv in declarations of set_file_attribute
	and alloc_sd. Remove declaration of lookup_name.



---

**Attachments:**

- [sec_helper.cc.diff](sec_helper.cc.diff) (text)
- [security.cc.diff](security.cc.diff) (text)
- [security.h.diff](security.h.diff) (text)
- [shm.cc.diff](shm.cc.diff) (text)
- [uinfo.cc.diff](uinfo.cc.diff) (text)
- [syscalls.cc.diff](syscalls.cc.diff) (text)
