# Re: Improvements to fork handling (2/5)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ryan Johnson <ryan.johnson@cs.utoronto.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-24T11:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4DDB9631.30904@cs.utoronto.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4DDB9631.30904@cs.utoronto.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/18-31-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/24/11-28-00)

On 23/05/2011 3:31 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On May 22 14:42, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > On 21/05/2011 9:44 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Wed, May 11, 2011 at 02:31:37PM -0400, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > > > Hi all,
> > > >
> > > > This patch has the parent sort its dll list topologically by
> > > > dependencies. Previously, attempts to load a DLL_LOAD dll risked pulling
> > > > in dependencies automatically, and the latter would then not benefit
> > > > from the code which "encourages" them to land in the right places.  The
> > > > dependency tracking is achieved using a simple class which allows to
> > > > introspect a mapped dll image and pull out the dependencies it lists.
> > > > The code currently rebuilds the dependency list at every fork rather
> > > > than attempt to update it properly as modules are loaded and unloaded.
> > > > Note that the topsort optimization affects only cygwin dlls, so any
> > > > windows dlls which are pulled in dynamically (directly or indirectly)
> > > > will still impose the usual risk of address space clobbers.
> > >
> > > This seems CPU and memory intensive during a time for which we already
> > > know is very slow.  Is the benefit really worth it?  How much more robust
> > > does it make forking?
> >
> > Topological sorting is O(n), so there's no asymptotic change in
> > performance. Looking up dependencies inside a dll is *very* cheap
> > (2-3 pointer dereferences per dep), and all of this only happens for
> > dynamically-loaded dlls. Given the number of calls to
> > Virtual{Alloc,Query,Free} and LoadDynamicLibraryEx which we make, I
> > would be surprised if the topsort even registered.  That said, it is
> > extra work and will slow down fork.
> >
> > I have not been able to test how much it helps, but it should help
> > with the test case Jon Turney reported with python a while back [1].
> > In fact, it was that example which made me aware of the potential
> > need for a topsort in the first place.
> >
> > In theory, this should completely eliminate the case where us
> > loading one DLL pulls in dependencies automatically (= uncontrolled
> > and at Windows' whim). The problem would manifest as a DLL which
> > "loads" in the same wrong place repeatedly when given the choice,
> > and for which we would be unable to VirtualAlloc the offending spot
> > (because the dll in question has non-zero refcount even after we
> > unload it, due to the dll(s) that depend on it.
>
> There might be a way around this.  It seems to be possible to tweak
> the module list the PEB points to so that you can unload a library
> even though it has dependencies.  Then you can block the unwanted
> space and call LoadLibrary again.  See (*) for a discussion how
> you can unload the exe itself to reload another one.  Maybe that's
> something we can look into as well.  ObNote:  Of course, if we
> could influnce the address at which a DLL gets loaded right from the
> start, it would be the preferrable solution.
>
>
> Corinna
>
> (*) http://www.blizzhackers.cc/viewtopic.php?p=4332690

After poking around at (*) a bit, it looks like NtMapViewOfSection does 
more than I would have expected wrt dll loading. However, when I tried 
to fire up a toy program to test it, NtOpenSection always returns 
C0000024, regardless of whether I pass OBJ_KERNEL_HANDLE to it.

Does anybody have experience with those two functions?

Ryan



