# Re: [PATCH v4 0/3] use wincap in format_proc_cpuinfo for user_shstk

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@Shaw.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-06-21T09:04:24-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [93b075ef-3b5e-4025-ab37-11707c1a14e4@Shaw.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/93b075ef-3b5e-4025-ab37-11707c1a14e4@Shaw.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/18-15-16.thread.md#:~:text=2023/06/21/15-04-24)

On 2023-06-21 02:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jun 20 22:50, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2023-06-20 02:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Never mind, I fixed the remaining problems.  Thanks for the patch,
> > > I pushed it with slight modifications to the commit messages.
> > >
> > > I'm a bit puzzled if my original mail
> > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2023q2/012280.html
> > > was really that unclear.  Reiterating for the records:
> > >
> > > - Commit messages should really try to explain why the patch is made and
> > > ```
> > >     what it's good for. In case of fixing a bug, the bug should be explained
> > >     and, ideally, explain why the patch is the better solution.
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > - If a patch fixes an older bug, it should say so and point out the
> > > ```
> > >     commit which introduced the bug using the Fixes: tag.  The format
> > >     is
> > >       Fixes: <12-digit-SHA1> ("<commit headline>")
> > >
> > >     The parens and quoting chars are part of the format.
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > - Every patch should contain a Signed-off-by: to indicate that
> > > ```
> > >     you did the patch by yourself.  That's easily automated by
> > >     using `git commit -s'.
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> > > - Other Tags like "Reported-by:" or "Tested-by:" are nice to have,
> > >     but not essential.
> > >
> > > > - For obvious reasons, the message text in your cover message won't make
> > > > ```
> > > >    it into the git repo.  However, the commit messages in git should
> > > >    reflect why the change was made, so a future interested reader has
> > > >    a chance to understand why a change was made.
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > Not obvious to me unfortunately!
>
>
> No worries, we're all learning while we're going along.
>
> > https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/Documentation/process/submitting-patches.rst
>
>
> This is pretty well written, and it very nicely explains how to write
> commit messages and use tagging.
>
> Writing useful commit messages helps other people a lot to understand
> why a patch was made, especially in tricky error cases (locking issues
> are hard to follow, a good explanation is key).
>
> If you ask me, there's no such thing as a too long commit message.
>
> We're a small group so we're not supposed to follow the above document
> to the core.  However, things like "Fixes:" are really great, because
> they connect a patch with a history of other patches and allow an aha
> effect when checking on the referenced older patch.  I can honestely
> tell you that it already helped me a lot when working on the Linux
> kernel.  That's why I'd like to make this standard for our small project
> here, too.
>
> And one of the core expressions used in this doc is this:
>    Don't get discouraged - or impatient
> :)


Cheers - never discouraged - a bit impatient because often frustrated - 
sometimes confused - like Alice and the White Knight's song "Haddocks' Eyes" - 
finding that the /footers/ are sometimes called /headers/ and other times /tags/ 
but actually named *trailers* finally gave more useful results where /fixes/ did 
not! ;^>

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


