# Re: [Patch]: Last path.cc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-04-13T12:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20040413124306.GD26558@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20040413124306.GD26558@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/03-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/04/13/12-43-00)

On Apr 12 19:29, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 11:45 PM 4/10/2004 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sat, Apr 10, 2004 at 11:37:07PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > This should take care of the issues I listed yesterday evening.
> > >
> > > I simply don't understand the logic in normalize_win32_path
> > > well enough to touch it intelligently. 
> > > So I removed the final . in the dumbest way possible
> >
> >
> > Why do we have to remove the final dot?
> >
> > How does that jive with the goal of munging windows paths as little
> > as possible.
>
>
> Windows paths go through the symlink evaluation and path existence
> loops as all others. Keeping the final /. causes abnormal behavior
> with some symlinks (Cygwin looks for /..lnk).
> Also the non-uniform normalization complicates other routines. For
> example hash_path_name() contains special code to detect and remove
> the final /. 
>
> About the "normalized_path", I would still recommend replacing
> get_name() by get_win32_name() in fchown32, fchmod, fstat64, facl32

                                                      ???????

> and perhaps fhandler_disk_file::mmap. Otherwise making changes to the
> mounts can cause calls on opened files to fail. It's also faster.


I think the better approach is to change all these functions to
work on handles instead of filenames.  The current implementation
works basically like this:

```
  fbaz (int fd)
  {
    Get fhandler
    baz (fhandler->posix_name);
  }

  baz(char *posix_name)
  {
    Get_Win32_name(posix_name);
    Win32_baz_equivalent (Win32_name);
  }

  Win32_baz_equivalent (Win32_name)
  {
    handle = NtCreateFile (Win32_name);
    NT_baz_equivalent (handle);
    NtCloseHandle (handle);
  }

```

Which results in the system always having to open a file twice when
these functions are called by an application.

What I'm up to is to change all the affected functionality to what's
already working fine in case of stat/fstat:

```
  baz (char *posix_name)
  {
    Create fhandler
    fhandler->fbaz (fd);
  }

  fbaz (int fd)
  {
    Get fhandler
    fhandler->fbaz (fd);
  }

  fhandler::fbaz ()
  {
    NT_baz_equivalent (handle);
  }

```

That shouldn't take too long, since using the already available handle
is already implemented for *getting* security information.  What needs
to be implemented is just to use the appropriate function when *setting*
security attributes.

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


