# Re: Make Cygwin damons easier to use on Win9x.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-07-25T14:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010725175126.C11993@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010725175126.C11993@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/07-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/07/25/14-51-00)

On Thu, Jul 12, 2001 at 12:39:13AM +0900, Kazuhiro Fujieda wrote:
> I had enjoyed my daemon patch for a while. I found detaching
> the console worked fine and cause no undesirable side effect,
> while the ctrl_c_handler caused an undesirable effect.
> It terminated Cygwin processes running as services on NT/2000
> when an user logged off. So I fixed it.


I'm slowly crawling out of my vacation hole, and had some time to look
at this patch while I was in the middle of multiple phone meetings.

Anyway, I've applied this patch.  I was a little reluctant to change the
behavior of the CTRL_SHUTDOWN_EVENT since it has been like this for some
time.

However, if you want to make an omelette...

Nice patch, by the way.  I like the way you did this, Kazuhiro.

cgf

> 2001-07-12  Kazuhiro Fujieda  <fujieda@jaist.ac.jp>
>
> 	* syscalls.cc (setsid): Detach process from its console if
> 	the current controlling tty is the console and already closed.
> 	* dtable.h (class dtable): Add members to count descriptors
> 	referring to the console.
> 	* dtable.cc (dtable::dec_console_fds): New function to detach
> 	process from its console.
> 	(dtable::release): Decrement the counter of console descriptors.
> 	(dtable::build_fhandler): Increment it.
> 	* exception.cc (ctrl_c_handler): Send SIGTERM to myself when catch
> 	CTRL_SHUTDOWN_EVENT.



