# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-10T00:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030810000733.GA13380@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030810000733.GA13380@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/22-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/10/00-07-00)

On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 03:59:00PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > [snip]
> > Btw, have you considered some kind of rpm -f functionality?  That would
> > allow a user to do a:
> >
> > cygcheck -f /usr/bin/ls.exe
> > fileutils-4.1-2
> >
> > Also some kind of functionality which would allow cygcheck to query
> > the same files as the web search would be really cool.  Something like
> > a:
> >
> > cygcheck --whatprovides /usr/bin/ls.exe
> >
> > would be really useful.
>
>
> I'm not sure I see the difference between the two cases above.


-f checks the installed database in /etc/setup/package.lst.gz (similar
to rpm -f), --whatprovides checks the "database" on sources.redhat.com
(similar to Red Hat's up2date?).  That's what I meant by "the same files
as the web search".

I don't see why -f wouldn't be relatively trivial to do since we know
have code in cygcheck which uncompresses and opens each of the package
files.  --whatprovides would require a net query, of course.  That would
be more complicated.

> > Another interesting thing would be to do some ntsec/mkpasswd/mkgroup
> > type sanity checks or even to fix up common ntsec problems.
>
>
> Yeah.  At least have it check for the group name of "mkpasswd" or
> "mkgroup"...  That, however, would require a separate flag, IMO.


Why a separate flag?  Why not always do it with a cygcheck -s?

cgf


