# Re: cygwin part of pseudo-relocs patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-09-15T12:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020915190545.GC32609@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020915190545.GC32609@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/23-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/15/12-05-00)

On Sun, Sep 15, 2002 at 03:51:39PM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Saturday, 14 September, 2002 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> CF> On Tue, Sep 03, 2002 at 10:38:20AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> > > This is an updated cygwin part of pseudo-relocs patch.  Relocations are
> > > performed inside of cygwin1.dll, as Chris suggested, and it seems to
> > > work ok in case of one dll referencing another one.  After new binutils
> > > package is released, it can go into cygwin release.
> >
>
>
> CF> Sorry for the long delay in reviewing this.  As the mantra goes "I've
> CF> been incredibly busy".  I could tell you just how busy I am but I don't
> CF> have time right now.  Anyway, I thought that this patch would take some
> CF> time to review so I've been avoiding it.
>
> CF> As it turns out, it took very little time at all.
>
> CF> It seems to be ok, as far as I can tell, but I would prefer it if you
> CF> would use the cygwin_internal interface for adding new cygwin-specific
> CF> functionality.  That can allow a program to gracefully degrade when
> CF> a feature is not available rather than popping up an "entry point not
> CF> found" dialog.
>
> This entry point was added intentionally, to diagnose the case
> when application, linked using --enable-pseudo-relocs, is linked
> (statically or dynamically) with a runtime which doesn't support such
> relocations. Actually, i don't see the way for application to handle
> such situation in other way than simply exiting with some kind of
> "fatal error" message.


Which is much more graceful than displaying a dialog box.

cgf


