# Re: HYPER-V VMs: Cygwin /bin/getent group 'Virtual Machines' cannot find the group

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin core component patch submission and discussion <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-03-11T11:11:07-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [be24eeb3-bf47-4636-ae7f-f1a8d6ec0417@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/be24eeb3-bf47-4636-ae7f-f1a8d6ec0417@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-11-07.thread.md#:~:text=2026/03/11/17-11-07)

On 2026-03-11 09:16, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin wrote:
> On Mar  3 09:26, Aurélien Couderc via Cygwin wrote:
> > On Mon, Mar 2, 2026 at 8:19 PM Martin Wege via Cygwin wrote:
> > > we use HYPER-V virtual machines on Windows 10 and Windows 11. It seems
> > > they use a "special" kind of group called 'Virtual Machines', which
> > > Cygwin (3.6.5) /bin/getent cannot lookup:
> > >
> > > getent group 'Virtual Machines'
> > > <nothing>
> > >
> > > Does anyone have ideas or clues how to get getent group to work with
> > > this kind of Windows group?
> > >
> > > We want the Cygwin gid for that group, and use Cygwin commands to work
> > > with those files...
> >
> >
> > Déjà vu
> >
> > 1. Please read https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2025-July/258505.html
> >
> > 2. Try this:
> > getent group "NT VIRTUAL MACHINE+Virtual Machines"
> > For me, with default (empty, except comments) /etc/nsswitch.conf, it
> > does not work. Which I consider a bug.
>
>
> It's not a bug, it's a feature.  Truly so.  Keep in mind that there's
> no easy translation from arbitrary SIDs to 32 bit uid/gid values and
> vice versa.  So every time, Microsoft adds YA arbitrary SID not following
> the already implemented and supported schemes, the bijective mapping
> has to be implemented manually.
>
> Done in the main branch.


Are these default behaviour with other builtin symbols, or do they need enabled 
with a db_enum value?
It also looks as if nsswitch files and docs need updated in that case?

Why not also use the ..._ID_BASE_RID symbols rather than unobvious arg.id hex 
value comparisons, to tie the comparisons together consistently?
The other arg.id hex value comparisons could also do with similar treatment; are 
there any missing value symbols, do you know?

So are PTC with any advice if SHTDI?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


