# Re: [PATCH] Use automake (v3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-12-01T10:18:33+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201201091833.GJ303847@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201201091833.GJ303847@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/24/13-37-20.thread.md#:~:text=2020/12/01/09-18-33)

Hi Jon,

On Nov 30 17:02, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 30/11/2020 10:47, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 30 11:25, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > Also, after applying the patch and autogen-ing, a full build from
> > top-level fails with some warnings and a final undefined symbol:
>
>
> The warnings are expected at this stage.
>
> > make[5]: Entering directory '[...]/x86_64-pc-cygwin/winsup/utils/mingw'
> > ```
> >    CXX      ../bloda.o
> >    CXX      ../cygcheck.o
> >    CXX      ../dump_setup.o
> >    CXX      ../ldh.o
> >    CXX      ../path.o
> >    CXX      ../cygwin-console-helper.o
> >    CXX      ../path_testsuite-path.o
> >    CXX      ../strace.o
> >    CXX      ../path_testsuite-testsuite.o
> > ```
> >
> > [...]/winsup/utils/mingw/../testsuite.cc:18: warning: "TESTSUITE" redefined
> >     18 | #define TESTSUITE
>
>
> This redefinition should probably be inside #ifndef TESTSUITE/#endif
>
> > <command-line>: note: this is the location of the previous definition
> > ```
> >    CXXLD    cygwin-console-helper.exe
> >    CXXLD    ldh.exe
> > ```
> >
> > In file included from [...]/winsup/utils/mingw/../path.cc:263:
> > [...]/winsup/utils/mingw/../testsuite.h:22:24: warning: ISO C++ forbids converting a string constant to 'char*' [-Wwrite-strings]
> >     22 | #define TESTSUITE_ROOT "X:\\xyzroot"
>
>
> I'm not sure how to restructure things to avoid this warning.
>
> The '-Wno-error=write-strings' flag is added when building this test to
> avoid this being fatal.
>
> >    CXXLD    path-testsuite.exe
> > /usr/lib/gcc/x86_64-w64-mingw32/9.2.1/../../../../x86_64-w64-mingw32/bin/ld: ../path_testsuite-path.o:path.cc:(.rdata$.refptr.max_mount_entry[.refptr.max_mount_entry]+0x0): undefined reference to `max_mount_entry'
>
>
> This is a bit puzzling.  I don't get this when building locally, but idk why
> since there is only a tentative definition of this variable.
>
> I'm not sure how this being built is changed by automaking to stop it
> working for you (perhaps optimization flags are now being used?)
>
> Perhaps the attached helps, although what is getting stubbed out when
> testing could be clearer.


It helps to build the whole lot.  The warnings are still generated.
I applied the attached patch to avoid the warnings when building
path-testsuite.exe.  Still TODO are the warnings generated when 
building libltp, though.

What bugs me is that the mingw executables are built in utils/mingw,
but the object files are still in utils.  Any problem generating the
object files in utils/mingw, too?


Thanks,
Corinna


---

**Attachments:**

- [0001-Cygwin-fix-remaining-warnings-building-path-testsuit.patch](0001-Cygwin-fix-remaining-warnings-building-path-testsuit.patch) (text)
