# Re: [PATCH] Use automake (v3)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-12-01T11:07:38+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20201201100738.GL303847@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20201201100738.GL303847@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/24/13-37-20.thread.md#:~:text=2020/12/01/10-07-38)

On Dec  1 10:18, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Jon,
>
> On Nov 30 17:02, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 30/11/2020 10:47, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > [...]
> > >    CXXLD    path-testsuite.exe
> > > /usr/lib/gcc/x86_64-w64-mingw32/9.2.1/../../../../x86_64-w64-mingw32/bin/ld: ../path_testsuite-path.o:path.cc:(.rdata$.refptr.max_mount_entry[.refptr.max_mount_entry]+0x0): undefined reference to `max_mount_entry'
> >
> >
> > This is a bit puzzling.  I don't get this when building locally, but idk why
> > since there is only a tentative definition of this variable.
> >
> > I'm not sure how this being built is changed by automaking to stop it
> > working for you (perhaps optimization flags are now being used?)
> >
> > Perhaps the attached helps, although what is getting stubbed out when
> > testing could be clearer.
>
>
> It helps to build the whole lot.  The warnings are still generated.
> I applied the attached patch to avoid the warnings when building
> path-testsuite.exe.  Still TODO are the warnings generated when 
> building libltp, though.
>
> What bugs me is that the mingw executables are built in utils/mingw,
> but the object files are still in utils.  Any problem generating the
> object files in utils/mingw, too?


I also don't like how test-driver is generated in the toplevel
source dir.  It should either be generated in source level winsup,
if it's a file to be added to the repo (like aclocal.m4, etc), or,
if generated at runtime evey time, it should go into the build dir,
me thinks.


Corinna


