# big kill patch (adds list/help/version)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-03-10T18:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020311020418.6676.qmail@web20002.mail.yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020311020418.6676.qmail@web20002.mail.yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/03/10/18-54-00)

As a result of the 'kill -sigN' functionality, kill does not use
GNU getopt to process options, so this patch required quite a few
changes. While ./kill.exe works the same as /bin/kill for me, as
usual I'm not saying it has any MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Send me test cases and I will test if you desire.

I also made two "unecessary" changes, which I like to think of as
improvements. First, I removed the goto statement and moved the 
code into a new function called sig0 (the label from the goto). This
and all the other functions now appear above main (). I thought a 
goto was absolutely necessary (even though I haven't needed one since 
VAX assembly), until I read:

Edsger W. Dijkstra "Go To Statement Considered Harmful"
http://www.acm.org/classics/oct95/

No code was harmed in this move. In fact, being lazy I left all the
variable names the same.
Second, there is now a -l, --list option that will list signal numbers
and a *description* of the signal such as:

24: CPU time limit exceeded

I would like to add the symbolic names like XCPU, HUP, etc. to the list 
option, but I don't know of a dynamic way to do so. Is there something like
strsignal for this, or would it have to be hard-coded?

2002-03-10  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>
```
* kill.cc (sig0) New function. Process signals given on command line.
          (usage) Generalize to allow use for help. Describe options.
          (list_signals) New fucntion.
          (print_version) New function. 
```

```
          (main) Accomodate new options. Add long options for each. 
           Move goto functionality to sig0.

```


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Try FREE Yahoo! Mail - the world's greatest free email!
http://mail.yahoo.com/


---

**Attachments:**

- [kill.cc-patch](kill.cc-patch) (text)
