# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: signal: Do not handle signal when __SIGFLUSHFAST is sent

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-01-19T08:59:21+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20250119085921.e6a4a78cba5d8108b8c3de65@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20250119085921.e6a4a78cba5d8108b8c3de65@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2024/12/23/01-33-25.thread.md#:~:text=2025/01/18/23-59-21)

On Fri, 17 Jan 2025 18:52:41 +0900
Takashi Yano wrote:
> On Wed, 8 Jan 2025 18:05:53 -0800 (PST)
> Jeremy Drake wrote:
> > On Thu, 9 Jan 2025, Takashi Yano wrote:
> >
> > > On Wed, 8 Jan 2025 16:48:41 +0100
> > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Does this patch fix Bruno's bash issue as well?
> > >
> > >
> > > I'm not sure because it is not reproducible as he said.
> > > I also could not reproduce that.
> > >
> > > However, at least this fixes the issue that Jeremy encountered:
> > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2024-December/256977.html
> > >
> > > But, even with this patch, Jeremy reported another hang issue
> > > that also is not reproducible:
> > > https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2024-December/256987.html
> >
> >
> > Yes, this patch helped the hangs I was seeing on Windows on ARM64.
> > However, there is still some hang issue in 3.5.5 (which occurs on
> > native x86_64) that is not there in 3.5.4.  Git for Windows' test suite
> > seems to be somewhat reliable at triggering this, but it's hardly a
> > minimal test case ;).
> >
> > Because of this issue, MSYS2 has been keeping 3.5.5 in its 'staging' state
> > (rather than deploying it to normal users), and Git for Windows rolled
> > back to 3.5.4 before the release of the latest Git RC.
>
>
> I might have successfully reproduced this issue. I tried building
> cygwin1.dll repeatedly for some of my machines, and one of them
> hung in fhandler_pipe::raw_read() as lazka's case:
> https://github.com/msys2/msys2-runtime/pull/251#issuecomment-2571338429
>
> The call:
> L358:         waitret = cygwait (select_sem, select_sem_timeout);
> never returned even with select_sem_timeout == 1 until a signal
> (such as SIGTERM, SIGKILL) arrives. In this situation, attaching
> gdb to the process hanging and issuing 'si' command do not return.
> Something (stack?) seems to be completely broken.


This behaviour ('si' command of gdb does not return) is the normal
bahaviour for WF[SM]O. The problem may be a broken timer, I guess?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


