# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: getdtablesize: always return OPEN_MAX_MAX

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-01-28T17:13:04+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20210128161304.GC4393@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20210128161304.GC4393@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-51-50.thread.md#:~:text=2021/01/28/16-13-04)

On Jan 28 17:07, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Jan 28 08:42, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On 1/28/2021 5:20 AM, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Jan 27 21:51, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > According to the Linux man page for getdtablesize(3), the latter is
> > > > supposed to return "the maximum number of files a process can have
> > > > open, one more than the largest possible value for a file descriptor."
> > > > The constant OPEN_MAX_MAX is the only limit enforced by Cygwin, so we
> > > > now return that.
> > > >
> > > > Previously getdtablesize returned the current size of cygheap->fdtab,
> > > > Cygwin's internal file descriptor table.  But this is a dynamically
> > > > growing table, and its current size does not reflect an actual limit
> > > > on the number of open files.
> > > >
> > > > With this change, gnulib now reports that getdtablesize and
> > > > fcntl(F_DUPFD) work on Cygwin.  Packages like GNU tar that use the
> > > > corresponding gnulib modules will no longer use gnulib replacements on
> > > > Cygwin.
> > > > ---
> > > > ```
> > > >   winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc | 2 +-
> > > >   1 file changed, 1 insertion(+), 1 deletion(-)
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > ```diff
> > > > diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc b/winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc
> > > > index 5da05b18a..1f16d54b9 100644
> > > > --- a/winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc
> > > > +++ b/winsup/cygwin/syscalls.cc
> > > > @@ -2887,7 +2887,7 @@ setdtablesize (int size)
> > > >   extern "C" int
> > > >   getdtablesize ()
> > > >   {
> > > > -  return cygheap->fdtab.size;
> > > > +  return OPEN_MAX_MAX;
> > > >   }
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > getdtablesize is used internally, too.  After this change, the values
> > > returned by sysconf and getrlimit should be revisited as well.
> >
> >
> > They will now return OPEN_MAX_MAX, as I think they should.  The only
> > question in my mind is whether to simplify the code by removing the calls to
> > getdtablesize, something like this (untested):
>
>
> But then again, what happens with OPEN_MAX in limits.h?  Linux removed
> it entirely.  Given we have such a limit and it's not flexible as on
> Linux, should we go ahead, drop OPEN_MAX_MAX entirely and define
> OPEN_MAX as 3200?


...ideally by adding a file include/cygwin/limits.h included by
include/limits.h, which defines __OPEN_MAX et al, as required.


Corinna


