# RE: Patch for /proc/meminfo handler

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Andrew Klopper <andrew.klopper@is.co.za> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-03-18T10:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [A065B7C9B0648F4F8C43388D0D699F8D24977E@ZABRYSVCL21EX01.af.didata.local](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/A065B7C9B0648F4F8C43388D0D699F8D24977E@ZABRYSVCL21EX01.af.didata.local) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-22-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/03/18/10-22-00)

Based on your results I would tend to agree that both are probably
wrong. This is the output from the unpatched DLL on my system:

> cat /proc/meminfo

         total:      used:      free:
Mem:   267829248  209637376   58191872
Swap:  185839616  377110528 4103696384
MemTotal:         261552 kB
MemFree:           56828 kB
MemShared:             0 kB
HighTotal:             0 kB
HighFree:              0 kB
LowTotal:         261552 kB
LowFree:           56828 kB
SwapTotal:        181484 kB
SwapFree:        4007516 kB

If you convert SwapFree from a 32 bit unsigned int to a 32 bit signed
int it it turns into a more "reasonable" negative number, which implies
that mem_total > dwAvailPageFile. Perhaps the problem lies in the
interpretation of dwTotalPageFile and dwAvailPageFile relative to
dwTotalPhys and dwAvailPhys. Unfortunately I do not have the answer at
the moment.

-----Original Message-----
From: Corinna Vinschen [mailto:vinschen@redhat.com] 
Sent: 13 March 2004 01:08 AM
To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
Subject: Re: Patch for /proc/meminfo handler

On Mar 12 15:14, Andrew Klopper wrote:
> With the Cygwin 1.5.7-1 DLL, 'cat /proc/meminfo' returns an incorrect 
> value for free swap space. This is most noticeable when the free 
> virtual memory is less than the total physical memory, in which case 
> the calculated free swap space is a negative value. This value is then
>
> converted to an unsigned int for display purposes, resulting in a very
>
> large positive number which is greater than the total amount of swap 
> space.
>
> A patch to correct this problem is attached.


Well, that doesn't look right after applying your patch:

```
  $ cat /proc/meminfo
	   total:      used:      free:
  Mem:   536330240  230658048  305672192
  Swap:  770961408 4245790720  820137984
  MemTotal:         523760 kB
  MemFree:          298508 kB
  [...]
  SwapTotal:        752892 kB
  SwapFree:         800916 kB

```

The result using the original version looks much better:

```
  $ cat /proc/meminfo
	   total:      used:      free:
  Mem:   536330240  231788544  304541696
  Swap:  770961408  182104064  588857344
  MemTotal:         523760 kB
  MemFree:          297404 kB
  [...]
  SwapTotal:        752892 kB
  SwapFree:         575056 kB

```

So, perhaps both are wrong?

Please don't send patches uuencoded or in any other encoded or
compressed way.  Just add it as plain text, inline or attached.  And all
patches need a ChangeLog entry.  Have a look onto
http://cygwin.com/contrib.html which explains it thoroughly.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.





This email and all contents are subject to the following disclaimer:

"http://www.didata.com/disclaimer.asp"


