# Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-10-19T18:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121019184636.GZ25877@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121019184636.GZ25877@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/16-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/19/18-47-00)

On Oct 19 11:33, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Fri, 2012-10-19 at 11:21 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Oct 18 12:20, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> > > None; should I also move the other setup.exe prerequisites for
> > > i686-w64-mingw32?  Would you also like x86_64 versions of any of those?
> >
> >
> > If it's not asked too much, sure on both accounts!
>
>
> Done.


Thanks!

> > The theory is that cygwin will continue to co-exist with mingw and
> > w32api for a while, but cygwin does not build or use mingw and w32api.
> > However, winsup/configure.in adds mingw and w32api subdirs to SUBDIRS
> > based on the mere existence of the dirs.
> > If we want to make Cygwin independent of mingw/w32api and vice versa,
> > I'd suggest the following patch to winsup/configure.in instead:
> >
> > This builds cygwin, cygserver, lsaauth, utils and doc dirs
> > if the target is Cygwin, mingw and w32api otherwise.  
>
>
> I'll incorporate that into my next draft.
>
> > Just as a note for the future, we don't have to fix that immediately:
> >
> > Given that the lsaauth modules don't call any Cygwin function but rather
> > only use a few Cygwin datastructure, and given that we now require a
> > mingw compiler to build the native utils anyway, I'm wondering if we
> > shouldn't simply require the x86 and x86_64 targeting mingw compilers to
> > build the lsaauth modules as well.
> >
> > If we do that, we could already build the 32 and the 64 bit versions
> > of the lsaauth module today, right from the Makefile.  That sounds 
> > like a much better solution than the make-64bit-version-with-mingw-w64.sh
> > script and keeping the 64 bit DLL as a binary blob in the repo, doesn't
> > it?
>
>
> Agreed, I'll add that too.


That's nice, but... I'm not yet sure how *exactly* this should look like.
I don't know if you can just include the required cygwin headers without
trouble, for instance.  Also, the 32 and the 64 bit version of the
cyglsa DLL belong together into a single 32 bit release.  This requires
to have both mingw compilers installed to create a 32 bit Cygwin
release.   Should configure fail if one of them can't be found?  Or
should it just warn?  Such a warning is easily missed.  I think we
should discuss this first.

At one point we will also have to decide if the 64 bit cyglsa should be
built with 64 bit Cygwin...

> > A very minor nit:  Personally I feel better if variables are braced in
> > such a scenario. From my POV it's also easier readable:
> >
> >   AC_CHECK_PROGS(MINGW_CXX, ${target_cpu}-w64-mingw32-g++ ${target_cpu}-pc-mingw32-g++)
>
>
> Fine.
>
> > Other than that, I think it's good to go in after the 1.7.17 release.
> > I'll try to do the release at some point between now and Monday.
>
>
> I'll include those changes and post a new patch then.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


