# Re: Increase st_blksize to 64k

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-01-03T15:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20070103155908.GD4106@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20070103155908.GD4106@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/18-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/01/03/15-59-00)

On Jan  3 10:40, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Jan 03, 2007 at 02:35:57PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan  3 06:20, Eric Blake wrote:
> > > -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
> > > Hash: SHA1
> > >
> > > According to Corinna Vinschen on 1/3/2007 5:16 AM:
> > > >
> > > > Setting st_blksize to 64K might be a good idea for disk I/O if the value
> > > > is actually used by applications.  Do you have a specific example or a
> > > > test result from a Cygwin application which shows the advantage of
> > > > setting st_blksize to this value?  I assume there was some actual case
> > > > which led you to make this change ;)
> > >
> > >
> > > Did you read the original link?
> > > http://sourceware.org/ml/cygwin/2006-12/msg00911.html
> >
> >
> > Urgh, sorry, no.  I missed it even twice, once when scanning the Cygwin
> > list to see what happened since Christmas, and once in Brian's mail
> > starting this thread.
> >
> > So it appears to make much sense to set the blocksize to 64K.  The
> > only question would be whether to use getpagesize() or a hard coded
> > value.  It seems to me that the 64K allocation granularity and using
> > 64K as buffer size in disk I/O coincide so I tend to agree that it
> > makes sort of sense to use getpagesize at this point.  What do you
> > think, Chris?
>
>
> I don't think getpagesize should be linked to this value.  The fact that
> both are 64K seems to be a coincidence to me.  This wasn't mentioned in
> the document that Brian mentioned was it?
>
> If we specifically want to use 64K block sizes then I think we should
> specifically say that rather than relying on some other unrelated mechanism
> to return a 64K constant.


Ok, I'll apply Brians patch with 64K hardcoded plus a comment why this
looks like a good idea, performance-wise.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


