# Re: [PATCH] Use automake (v5)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-04-22T13:57:34+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YIFkrv4KPAQypN8o@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YIFkrv4KPAQypN8o@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/20-13-26.thread.md#:~:text=2021/04/22/11-57-34)

On Apr 21 18:40, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Apr 20 21:15, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 20/04/2021 21:13, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > For ease of reviewing, this patch doesn't contain changes to generated
> > > files which would be made by running ./autogen.sh.
> >
> >
> > Sorry about getting distracted from this.  To summarize what I believe were
> > the outstanding issues with v3 [1]:
> >
> > [1] https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin-patches/2020q4/010827.html
> >
> > ```
> > * 'INCLUDES' is the old name for 'AM_CPPFLAGS' warning from autogen.sh
> >
> > I plan to clean this up in a future patch
> >
> > * 'ps$(EXEEXT)' previously defined' warning from autogen.sh
> > ```
> >
> >
> > It seems to be a shortcoming of automake that there's no way to suppress
> > just that warning.
> >
> > One possible solution is build ps.exe with a different name and rename it
> > while installing, but I think that is counter-productive (in the sense that
> > it trades this warning for making the build more complex to understand)
> >
> > * some object files are in a unexpected places in the build file hierarchy
> > (compared to naive expectations and/or the non-automake build)
>
>
> This is the only minor qualm I have with this patch.  It would be nice
> to have the mingw sources and .o files in the mingw subdir.  It would
> simply be a bit cleaner.  The files shared between cygwin and mingw
> (that's only path.cc, I think) could be handled by an include, i. e.
>
> ```
>   utils/
>
>     path.cc (full implementation)
>
>   utils/mingw/
>
>     path.cc:
>
>       #include "../path.cc"
> ```
>


I wonder if it wouldn't make sense to split out the mingw-only parts
of path.cc entirely.  I had a quick view into the file and it turns
out that of the almost 1000 lines in this file, only about 100 lines
are used by mount.  All the rest is only used by mingw code, i. e.,
cygcheck and strace.

That's obviously not part of this patch, but something we should keep
in mind for a later cleanup.


Corinna


