# Re: yet another "pedantic" patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | egor duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Christopher Faylor <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-09-14T13:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [84197556771.20010915000849@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/84197556771.20010915000849@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/08-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/14/13-11-00)

Hi!

Friday, 14 September, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:

> > CF> Can I suggest that you modify the check_null_empty_* to pass
> > CF> in an errno that should be used in the case of an empty string?
> >
> > CF> You are special casing checks to force an EINVAL.
> >
> > neither SUSv2 nor posix draft say what symlink should do if first
> > argument is empty string. actually, posix say that symlink() shouldn't
> > care for its validity as filesystem object at all, and this can be
> > treated as if empty string is allowed as symlink value.
> > So, should we eliminate (topath[0] == '\0') check altogether?
> > Of course, after verifying that symlink resolution code won't break on
> > such symlinks.
>


CF> Yes.  I guess we should eliminate this then.  It will probably require
CF> another special case check for symlink.

it looks like current symlink code handles empty string in symlink
contents without any trouble, but i want to give it a bit more
testing.

> > CF> Hmm.  I wonder if EINVAL is always appropriate for an empty string.
> > CF> It could just be wrong in check_null_empty_str.
> >
> > otherwise, i think that allowing the caller to specify desired errno
> > explicitly in call to check_null_empty_str_errno() is a good thing.
>


i've removed checks that were forcing EINVAL (leaving those that don't
relate to check_null_empty_*, however)

it turned out that current check_null_empty_* are ok, and there's no
actual need to add errno parameters to them. only place were empty
string in parameter is known to cause error is when it's file or
directory name. in that case ENOENT is pretty adequate, just as EFAULT
in case of NULL or invalid pointer.

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19
check-args-validity-2.ChangeLog
check-args-validity-2.diff



---

**Attachments:**

- [check-args-validity-2.ChangeLog](check-args-validity-2.ChangeLog) (text)
- [check-args-validity-2.diff](check-args-validity-2.diff) (text)
