# Re: yet another "pedantic" patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-14T13:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010914164404.A17411@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010914164404.A17411@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/08-47-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/14/13-43-00)

On Sat, Sep 15, 2001 at 12:08:49AM +0400, egor duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Friday, 14 September, 2001 Christopher Faylor cgf@redhat.com wrote:
>
> > > CF> Can I suggest that you modify the check_null_empty_* to pass
> > > CF> in an errno that should be used in the case of an empty string?
> > >
> > > CF> You are special casing checks to force an EINVAL.
> > >
> > > neither SUSv2 nor posix draft say what symlink should do if first
> > > argument is empty string. actually, posix say that symlink() shouldn't
> > > care for its validity as filesystem object at all, and this can be
> > > treated as if empty string is allowed as symlink value.
> > > So, should we eliminate (topath[0] == '\0') check altogether?
> > > Of course, after verifying that symlink resolution code won't break on
> > > such symlinks.
> >
>
>
> CF> Yes.  I guess we should eliminate this then.  It will probably require
> CF> another special case check for symlink.
>
> it looks like current symlink code handles empty string in symlink
> contents without any trouble, but i want to give it a bit more
> testing.
>
> > > CF> Hmm.  I wonder if EINVAL is always appropriate for an empty string.
> > > CF> It could just be wrong in check_null_empty_str.
> > >
> > > otherwise, i think that allowing the caller to specify desired errno
> > > explicitly in call to check_null_empty_str_errno() is a good thing.
> >
>
>
> i've removed checks that were forcing EINVAL (leaving those that don't
> relate to check_null_empty_*, however)
>
> it turned out that current check_null_empty_* are ok, and there's no
> actual need to add errno parameters to them. only place were empty
> string in parameter is known to cause error is when it's file or
> directory name. in that case ENOENT is pretty adequate, just as EFAULT
> in case of NULL or invalid pointer.


It looks ok except for this:

```
+  if (check_null_empty_str (topath) == EFAULT)
+    {
+      set_errno (EFAULT);
+      goto done;
```

```
+    }
+  if (check_null_empty_str_errno (frompath))
+    goto done;

There is no reason for this duplication is there?  Can't this just be
```

check_null_empty_str_errno?

cgf


