# Re: [PATCH v2] winsup/doc/posix.xml: add note for getrlimit, setrlimit, xrefs to notes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-02-17T10:29:30+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YCzh+lCePeSgiRqf@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YCzh+lCePeSgiRqf@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/22-35-39.thread.md#:~:text=2021/02/17/09-29-30)

On Feb 16 10:00, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2021-02-16 09:51, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2021-02-16 04:30, Corinna Vinschen via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Feb 15 15:35, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > > change notes to see "Implementation Notes" to xref to std-notes;
> > > > add xref to std-notes to getrlimit, setrlimit;
> > > > add note to document limitations of getrlimit, setrlimit resources support
> > > > ---
> > > >   winsup/doc/posix.xml | 101 ++++++++++++++++++++++++-------------------
> > > >   1 file changed, 57 insertions(+), 44 deletions(-)
> > >
> > >
> > > Pushed with a change:
> > >    <xref linkend="std-notes">(see chapter "Implementation Notes")</xref>
> > > -->
> > >    (see <xref linkend="std-notes">chapter "Implementation Notes"</xref>)
> > > The reason is how xref is handled when creating html docs.  The result
> > > of an xref is always 'the section called "..."'.  With the above change,
> > > the text works (albeit differently) in html and info file.
> >
> >
> > Cheers, thanks, I'll bear that in mind in future, and read the generated
> > output more carefully.
> >
> > I'm not seeing .info generated with Note:... links, is that okay?
>


db2x_docbook2texi from docbook2X is used for that.

> > Also ...api.pdf is no longer being regenerated, so what have I lost or am missing?
>


xmlto is doing this stuff, maybe the pdf option requires another package?

> > I have the following doc tools (and others):
> >
> > $ apt l asciidoc dblatex poppler\$ xmlto
> > asciidoc 8.6.9-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> > dblatex 0.3.10-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
> > poppler 21.01.0-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> > xmlto 0.0.28-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
>
>
> Also as documented plus other dependencies:
>
> $ apt l build-docbook-catalog docbook-sgml45 docbook-utils docbook-xml45 \
> 	docbook-xsl docbook2X
> build-docbook-catalog 1.5-2 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
> docbook-sgml45 4.5-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
> docbook-utils 0.6.14-2 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> docbook-xml45 4.5-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
> docbook-xsl 1.77.1-1 x86_64 [installed, automatic]
> docbook2X 0.8.8-1 x86_64 [installed, manual]
>
> > What else is needed?
>


Good question.  I'm running that on Fedora with the following docbook
packages installed:

```
  docbook-dtds
  docbook-style-xsl
  docbook-style-dsssl
  docbook-utils
  docbook2X

```

xmlto adds a dependency to flex.  docbook2X depends on texinfo, texinfo
comes with a number of packages on the far side of infinity.

Jon?  Any idea?


Thanks,
Corinna


