# Re: Resource Temporarily Unavailable workaround

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-11-23T00:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20071123002224.GC29996@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20071123002224.GC29996@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/16-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/11/23/00-22-00)

On Thu, Nov 22, 2007 at 05:55:05PM +0000, Andrew STUBBS wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Thu, Nov 22, 2007 at 12:00:51PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Thu, Nov 22, 2007 at 04:41:54PM +0000, Andrew STUBBS wrote:
> > > > The attached patch adds a 'retry' to the fork system call.  Basically
> > > > it waits 10 seconds to allow the 'resource temporarily unavailable' to
> > > > become (temporarily) available once more, and tries again, up to a
> > > > maximum of three attempts.
> > >
> > > There is already a retry in the fork and spawn system calls.  This
> > > technique has proved to be problematic since it can mask problems and
> > > you can end up with situations where a process starts successfully but
> > > cygwin thinks it fails and restarts the process again.  For the exec
> > > case, there is also a problem with non-cygwin .exes.
> > >
> > > If you look for retry in the fork call you should see where this is
> > > supposed to be happening.
> >
> >
> > Btw, it is likely that if you are seeing this problem that there is
> > something happening after the retry code in fork which is causing an
> > EAGAIN.  The existing retry code could be expanded to take that into
> > account if that is the case.
>
>
> Thanks, now I see the retry, but the code is impossible to follow
> without knowing both Cygwin and Windows backwards, and I don't have
> that much time to spend on this.  :(
>
> Clearly its retries aren't (always) sufficient.  Perhaps it isn't
> retrying enough, or retrying the right stuff, or maybe not waiting long
> enough between retries.


Yes, that's why I typed the above "Btw," paragraph.

> Unfortunately the problem isn't easily reproducible.  I can't use
> strace as it runs way too slowly and I would just never get to the
> problem.  I could instrument the whole file up so that I can trace just
> that, and then sit back and wait.
>
> Any suggestions?


You could use printf's to find where it is failing.

But, really, that's a pretty obvious suggestion.  I'm not sure what
suggestions you're looking for if you can't find the time to learn
anything more about Cygwin or Windows.

cgf


