# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Fix ONDEE for 64bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Yaakov (Cygwin/X) <yselkowitz@users.sourceforge.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-03-17T09:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130317041825.42371500@YAAKOV04](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130317041825.42371500@YAAKOV04) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/08-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/03/17/09-18-00)

On Sat, 16 Mar 2013 11:45:15 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Also, in libstdc++-v3/crossconfig.m4:
> >
> > > ```
> > > +  *-cygwin*)
> > > +    GLIBCXX_CHECK_COMPILER_FEATURES
> > > +    GLIBCXX_CHECK_LINKER_FEATURES
> > > +    GLIBCXX_CHECK_MATH_SUPPORT
> > > ```
> > >
> > > ```
> > > +    GLIBCXX_CHECK_STDLIB_SUPPORT
> > > +    ;;
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > I think cygwin should be added to the preceding linux|gnu|k*bsd-gnu
> > case, as we also have /dev/random, pthreads, and iconv.
>
>
> Yeah, this sounds like the right thing to do.  Thanks for the reminder.
> I can build a new linux toolchain next week, and I suppose you did
> build your native gcc toolchain with these changes already?


I also discovered two more gcc macros which were missing updates for
x86_64-cygwin.  I have added those patches, and incorporated your x86_64
patches into mine, into a 4.8 branch of my gcc port:

http://cygwin-ports.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=cygwin-ports/gcc;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/4.8

I am building native and 32-to-64 compilers with this patchset now.

> > BTW, the good news is that I was able to build cygwin-64bit-branch and
> > gcc (3-stage bootstrap with C/C++) natively on x86_64, albeit with
> > -j1, so we're officially at the point of self-hosting.  Hopefully your
> > latest patches will fix parallel make, but that will have to wait until
> > next week.
>
>
> Yes, it does, but the price is too high.  It's still a really puzzeling
> problem and the patch, even though it appeared to fix parallel makes,
> is apparently only covering the real, still undiscovered problem.
>
> The patch only moved the place in the code at which the pseudo relocator
> is called in the child after fork.  In the old location, everything
> appears to work fine, except for those weird, random crashes in parallel
> makes.  In the new location, the parallel makes work fine, but then
> autoreconf hangs in bash.


So I noticed; for now, I've reverted to -5 and MAKEOPTS=-j1.

> This is really, really frustrating.  I hope we can fix this next week,
> but right now I need a weekend off to get my head clear.


Well, with the sourceware upgrade, we've got a few days before we can
proceed much further either way.


Yaakov


