# Re: [PATCH] Mask mnemonics and expressions, help, getopts_long() for strace - current diff

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-10-10T19:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011114160931.B27452@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011114160931.B27452@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/10/10/19-25-00)

On Wed, Nov 14, 2001 at 08:59:18AM -0600, Gary R. Van Sickle wrote:
> > > +  -f, --fork-debug              ???\n\
> >
> >
> > The usage information for -f is missing.  -f means, trace not only
> > the application on the command line but also child apps forked by
> > the originally traced app.
> >
>
>
> Ok, thanks, yeah, I forgot to ask what that did.  In light of that, perhaps the
> long option would be better if it was something like "--trace-children" or
> "--trace-forked-children"?


Hmm,  --trace-forkee?  --trace-over-fork?  I'm not sure either.

Would be better if english would be my first language, I guess.

> > > +  -d, --delta                   Add a delta-t timestamp to each
> >
> > output line.\n\
> >
> > Giving the -d option doesn't show the delta but removes it from the output.
> > That should be the other way around.
> >
>
>
> So it does (well, more precisely it appears to switch from delta to absolute).
> I thought sure I checked that.  I'll change the longopt to "--absolute" and
> update the usage text.  Is "-d" too entrenched at this point to change it to
> "-a" at the same time and make things a little more consistent?


Uhm, from what I could see it actually just removes the delta from
the output.  Since there is already an absolute stamp,  I don't
think changing the option to -a,--absolute makes sense.  Just
use -d,--no-delta and stuck with the current behaviour.

> > > +  -u, --usecs                   Add a microsecond-resolution
> >
> > timestamp to each
> > > +                                output line.\n\
> >
> >
> > -u seem to have no effect on the output.
> >
>
>
> It appears that this option is either being ignored by the rest of the code or
> isn't implemented properly, I can't tell which.  The 'usecs' global switch
> variable is used only in syst(), and even there apparently not as a switch.
> Then in handle_output_debug_string() there's a local of the same name declared.
>
> I think what I'll do is just remove this from the usage text until I can figure
> this out and/or somebody can explain it to me.  Maybe this option should just be
> removed completely.


Yeah, from that point of view...  FWIW, it could make sense to remove
the output... Hmm, dunno. 

Any other opinion on that?

> Done and done.  I'll generate a new diff tonight.  Sorry about the problems,
> thanks for catching them.


Sure.  You're welcome.  I recall that my first patches back in 1998
weren't clean either :-)

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


