# Re: A minor patch to Makefile.in

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Nicholas Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-27T09:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3D1B3783.7030201@netscape.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3D1B3783.7030201@netscape.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/10-22-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/27/09-09-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Wed, Jun 26, 2002 at 01:21:22PM -0400, Nicholas Wourms wrote:
>
> > Ok,
> >
> > A correction:
> > "Due to the dependancy of gettext(libintl) and gettext, this pach..."
> >
> > This should read:
> > "Due to the dependancy of gettext(libintl) on libiconv, this patch..."
> >
> > Also, Netscape is stripping tabs, so I have attached the Changelog this 
> > time with the hope it won't be stripped.
> >
>
>
> Sorry, but this patch isn't acceptable.  If we are going to accommodate
> libiconv then there needs to be a configure test for it.
>
> cgf
>

Chris,

A better solution is to include "naked-intl" in the list of cvs modules 
for the "winsup" ampersand module, then when utils/Makefile.in evaluates 
"libintl:=${shell $(CC) -B$(bupdir2)/intl/ 
--print-file-name=libintl.a}", it will statically link dumper.exe to the 
libintl which *doesn't* depend on libiconv.  Otherwise, it will evaluate 
to be /usr/lib/libintl.a, which is dependant on libiconv if you are 
using the gettext > 10.40.  I think this would be a better solution 
because dumper.exe doesn't use any of the features provided by libiconv, 
so why use what isn't needed?  Furthermore, FWICT, src/intl doesn't 
install anything durning "make install", so nothing should get 
clobbered.  I'm going to checkout "naked-intl" to test this theory and 
re-run the build.  I'll report my findings shortly...

Cheers,
Nicholas


