# Re: [PATCH] Proposed clarification of the snapshot installation FAQ

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Peshansky <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-01-13T04:38:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.63.0601122333160.27020@access1.cims.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.63.0601122333160.27020@access1.cims.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/02-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/01/13/04-38-00)

On Thu, 12 Jan 2006, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Thu, Jan 12, 2006 at 07:57:27PM -0800, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > On 1/11/06, Igor Peshansky wrote:
> > > As mentioned in <http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2006-01/msg00537.html>,
> > > here's a patch to the FAQ to clarify the section on installing
> > > snapshots. I didn't know whether the various *.texinfo files are
> > > still used, so I ported the modifications there as well, just in
> > > case.
> >
> >
> > Applied to faq-setup.xml
>


Thanks.

> > (the texinfo files are no longer used... I suppose I should remove
> > them).
>


Yes, please.

> > It would be nice to have a sample batch file that automated the
> > cygwin1.dll replacement, too.
>
>
> I was hoping for a little more discussion about this.  I think Corinna
> and I are both a little despondent over the fact that we have to be
> SUPER precise about obvious things like when you say something like "cd
> /tmp" it means that you should be doing it in a POSIX shell.  I have to
> wonder what kind of useful feedback we'll get from people who can't
> figure this out.  I also was going to caution against telling everyone
> to "try a snapshot" at the first hint of trouble.  I don't think that
> this should be used as a panacea, although I realize that the length of
> time since the last cygwin release has made it attractive.
>
> ...but that's not an issue for this mailing list...


Right.

> Nevertheless, the advice about using "mv" to rename cygwin1.dll won't
> work on every version of Windows and needs to be changed.


Hmm, it's worked for me on Win98, Win2k, and WinXP (though I suppose there
could be differences on, say, WinNT4 or something)...  I basically wanted
to avoid giving too many things to do in Windows Explorer.  But no matter
-- I'll submit a patch with this change shortly.

FWIW, I usually do "cd /bin && cygstart cmd", and then close the bash
shell and do the renaming in the CMD window.  However, I don't think this
particular set of instructions can rely on the presence of cygstart...

> I didn't read much else besides that because I was just too depressed by
> the fact that the current words were <quote>confusing</unquote>.


Sigh...  I'm sure there'll be complaints about my wording too.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_	    pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu | igor@watson.ibm.com
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		Igor Peshansky, Ph.D. (name changed!)
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		old name: Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Las! je suis sot... -Mais non, tu ne l'es pas, puisque tu t'en rends compte."
"But no -- you are no fool; you call yourself a fool, there's proof enough in
that!" -- Rostand, "Cyrano de Bergerac"


