# Re: [Patch]: mkdir -p and network drives

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-06T04:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050506041342.GA27322@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050506041342.GA27322@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/06/04-13-00)

On Thu, May 05, 2005 at 10:57:08PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> Here is a patch to allow mkdir -p to easily work with network
> drives and to allow future enumeration of computers and of
> network drives by ls -l.
>
> It works by defining a new FH_NETDRIVE virtual handler for
> names such as // and //machine.
> This also makes chdir work without additional change.
>
> The code for the new handler is currently in fhandler_virtual.cc, for
> simplicity (not an expert on Makefile and fomit-frame-pointer).
> It should eventually be placed in fhandler_netdrive.cc


Yes.

> The code should handle "//" correctly, but path.cc still transforms it
> into "/", because of the bash bug.


Is that fixed in the current bash?

> I have directly edited devices.cc instead of using the devices.in
> magic.


I think that the fact that we have to check for //foo/bar in
mount_info::conv_to_win32_path indicates some kind of design flaw -- not
one that you introduced, of course.  I just don't think that this
function should be getting paths that are known not to be associated
with the mount table.  I would have expected that a //foo/bar style path
would not have made it down that far.  I also notice that the cygdrive
comment has been misplaced over time.  Could you fix that when you check
this in?

I just checked in a dummy fhandler_netdrive.cc, added
fhandler_netdrive.o to the Makefile, added FH_NETDRIVE to devices.h,
defined dev_netdrive_storage in devices.in, and regenerated devices.in.
So, I'd appreciate it if you would just move your fhandler_netdrive
stuff to fhandler_netdrive.cc.

I didn't renumber FH_FS with above change.  I wasn't sure why you did
that.  I don't think that there was a requirement that it has to be the
lowest numbered minor device number.  If there is a requirement like
that we should change it.

Anyway, feel free to check this in.

> About implementing readdir: PTC...


I was thinking about doing this but how would it ever be invoked?
You can't do an opendir on "//", right?

cgf


