# Re: [Patch]: mkdir -p and network drives

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-05-06T14:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20050506142213.GA20565@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20050506142213.GA20565@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/05/06/14-22-00)

On Fri, May 06, 2005 at 09:27:55AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> cgf wrote:
> > On Thu, May 05, 2005 at 10:57:08PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> >
> > > The code should handle "//" correctly, but path.cc still transforms it
> > > into "/", because of the bash bug.
> >
> >
> > Is that fixed in the current bash?
>
>
> AFAIK Corinna fixed it once, but the patch got lost and it's currently
> not fixed.
>
> > So, I'd appreciate it if you would just move your fhandler_netdrive
> > stuff to fhandler_netdrive.cc.
>
>
> Sure. Thanks for setting up the framework.
>
> > I didn't renumber FH_FS with above change.  I wasn't sure why you did
> > that.  I don't think that there was a requirement that it has to be the
> > lowest numbered minor device number.  If there is a requirement like
> > that we should change it.
>
>
> OK. No requirement, just aesthetic. There seemed to be a pattern.
>
> > > About implementing readdir: PTC...
> >
> >
> > I was thinking about doing this but how would it ever be invoked?
>
>
> With "ls -l //"  or "ls -l //machine"
>
> > You can't do an opendir on "//", right?
>
>
> Sure you can (thanks to existing code in the virtual driver). Just remove
> the
> code in path.cc that changes "//" into "/". It's only/mainly there because
> of bash.


Well, that was kinda my point.  If we can't remove the "//" handling because
it breaks bash then adding opendir/readdir stuff seems premature except for
the case of ls //foo which is entirely different from ls //.

cgf


