# Re: console enhancements: mouse events etc

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-03-30T14:22:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100330142200.GA12926@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100330142200.GA12926@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2009/11/06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/03/30/14-22-00)

On Mar 30 12:53, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On 30.03.2010 11:59, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Thomas,
>
> For some reason this mail didn't make it into my cygwin mailbox, so
> it's good you sent me a personal CC.


Weird.  You should really check your mail chain.  I never had a problem
to receive mail from the list, execpt my own server(s) choked.

> > Since you were looking into the Cygwin console code lately, maybe you
> > could find out why `stty sane' doesn't reset the character set?
>
> stty sane isn't supposed to do anything "sane" to the terminal, I
> think, just to the tty device.
> The tool to use would be 'reset'. So I'll try to find out why
> 'reset' doesn't reset the character set :-\ .


Uh, ok.  Right reset doesn't work either.

> > A couple of minutes ago I printed the bytes from an ISO image unfiltered
> > to the console.  Afterwards, the console was using the alternate
> > charset.
>
> There are two methods to switch to the alternate character set. One
> is by just sending a Control-N. Most terminals "guard" this method
> by requiring an enable sequence before this works. I guess this
> would considerably reduce the risk that this happens, that's
> probably why they do it.
> I didn't implement the guarding mechanism in fhandler_console
> (although I prepared it somewhat) so I think I should fully
> implement that.
> Also I tuned mined to send the corresponding disable sequence on
> exit which it didn't, probably (and weird enough) because terminfo
> maintains the enable capability but no disable capability...
>
> > `stty sane' does not switch back to the default charset for some reason.
>
> See above; I don't think it's supposed to do that.


I try to keep in mind :-}

> > If you have a bit of spare time, do you think you would like to have a look?
>
> Is it sufficient to complete this in 2 weeks (after Easter time)?


Sure!  It's not actually a pressing issue.  This request to look into
this problem is based on pure slackness on my side.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


