# Re: [PATCH] Fix return value and errno set by sem_init(), sem_destroy() and sem_close()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-03-29T07:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110329075127.GE15349@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110329075127.GE15349@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../28/22-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/03/29/07-51-00)

On Mar 28 18:16, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Mar 28, 2011 at 11:14:03PM +0100, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> >
> > While looking into some mysterious failures of sem_init() in python, I was
> > somewhat surprised to find the following comment in python/thread_pthread.h:
> >
> > > /*
> > >  * As of February 2002, Cygwin thread implementations mistakenly report error
> > >  * codes in the return value of the sem_ calls (like the pthread_ functions).
> > >  * Correct implementations return -1 and put the code in errno. This supports
> > >  * either.
> > >  */
> >
> >
> > While this comment refers to sem_wait() and sem_trywait(), which seem to have
> > been fixed since [1], it seems that sem_init(), sem_destroy() and sem_close()
> > are still non-conformant with SUS in that (i) they do not set errno, and (ii)
> > they don't return -1 on failure, instead returning the value which should be
> > set as errno.
> >
> > 2011-03-28  Jon TURNEY  <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk>
> >
> > 	* thread.cc (semaphore::init, destroy, close): Standards conformance
> > 	fix.  On a failure, return -1 and set errno.
> > 	* thread.h (semaphore::terminate): Save errno since semaphore::close()
> > 	may now modify it.
> >
> > [1] http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2002-02/msg01379.html
>
>
> Looks good.  Please check in ASAP so this will make it into 1.7.9.


Jon, your copyright assignment has been forwarded to my manager who's
going to sign it tomorrow.  So I took the liberty to check in this change
since I'd like to get out 1.7.9 today.  Actually, today *and* ASAP.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


