# Re: [PATCH 1/5] Cygwin: Make 'ulimit -c' control writing a coredump

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2024-01-25T20:03:18Z |
| **Message-ID** | [0613f2c3-4e1f-452a-8055-59d34d16c821@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/0613f2c3-4e1f-452a-8055-59d34d16c821@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/14-09-51.thread.md#:~:text=2024/01/25/20-03-18)

On 25/01/2024 18:21, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jan 25 14:50, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 24/01/2024 14:39, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Jan 24 13:28, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > On 23/01/2024 14:29, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > On Jan 23 14:20, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > >
> > >
> >
>

[...]
> > So this situation with a JIT debugger is even stranger than my emendations
> > to the documentation say.
> >
> > Because we're hitting try_to_debug() in exception::handle(), which has some
> > code to replay the exception via ExceptionContinueExecution (which I guess
> > the debugger will catch as a first-chance) (and goes into a mode where it
> > ignores the next half-million exceptions... no idea what that's about!)
> >
> > That's not the same as signal_exit() with a coredumping signal (haven't
> > checked if those are all generated from exceptions, but seems probable, so
> > the try_to_debug() there maybe isn't doing anything?), where we're going to
> > exit thereafter.
>
>
> try_to_debug() is only calling IsDebuggerPresent() as test, and that's
> nothing but a flag in the PEB which is set by the OS after a debugger
> attached to the process.  So the test is by definition extremely
> flaky, if the debugger is connecting and disconnecting, as you
> already pointed out.
>
> I'm wondering if we can't define our own way to attach to a process,
> allowing to "WaitForDebugger" as long as the debugger is a Cygwin
> debugger.  If we define a matching function (along the lines of
> prctl(2) on Linux), we could change our debuggers, core dumpers
> and stracers to call this attach function.
>
> The idea would be to define some shared mutex object, the inferior
> waits for and the debugger releases after having attached.
>
> Is there really any need to support non-Cygwin debuggers?


idk

I think something like that used to exist a long time ago, see commit 
8abeff1ead5f3824c70111bc0ff74ff835dafa55

That long predates my involvement with cygwin so I've no idea why that 
was removed.

> > The practical upshot of this is if the JIT debugger doesn't terminate or fix
> > the erroring process, we'll just replay the faulting instruction and invoke
> > the JIT debugger again.
>
>
> Hmm, ok.  This signal stuff *is* complicated and I'd be happy
> if anybody finds out how to fix that...


To be clear, not a problem with "core dumping signals", as the process 
now always end up exiting, one way or another.

It's only a problem when someone has set "CYGWIN=error_start:true" or 
something equally dumb.



