# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Map ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE and ERROR_MEDIA_CHANGED to ENODEV

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-02-24T13:21:28+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZdnfSDqfh1ZCynjH@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZdnfSDqfh1ZCynjH@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/18-14-02.thread.md#:~:text=2024/02/24/12-21-28)

On Feb 23 19:14, Christian Franke wrote:
> Experiments with damaged USB flash drives and ddrescue revealed that the
> current mapping of these Win32 errors to the fallback EACCES could be
> improved.
>
> BTW: I wonder why EACCES was selected as the fallback. Source code control
> forensics suggest that this was decided in the last millennium. A related
> comment from CGF added August 2000 persists until today :-)
> /* FIXME: what's so special about EACCESS? */


This goes back until 1997 in pre-CVS times.  There's a ChangeLog entry

```
  Wed Oct 29 22:43:57 1997  Geoffrey Noer  <noer@cygnus.com>

        [...]
        * syscalls.cc (seterrno): on failure, set EACCES instead of EPERM
        which is better for the unknown error case

```

So the default was EPERM at first and has been changed to EACCES
because it "is better for the unknown error case".

I'm open to ideas for an improved error mapping.

> From 8aa19c7fd13dc3790dc271dede8954539bffcd4d Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> From: Christian Franke <christian.franke@t-online.de>
> Date: Fri, 23 Feb 2024 19:01:09 +0100
> Subject: [PATCH] Cygwin: Map ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE and ERROR_MEDIA_CHANGED to
>  ENODEV
>
> If a removable (USB) device is disconnected after opening its raw
> device, R/W attempts fail with ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE(433).  If the
> raw device of a partition is used, ERROR_MEDIA_CHANGED(1110) is
> returned instead.  Both are mapped to ENODEV(19) because <errno.h>
> does not offer a value which better matches ERROR_MEDIA_CHANGED.
>
> Signed-off-by: Christian Franke <christian.franke@t-online.de>
> ---
> ```
>  winsup/cygwin/local_includes/errmap.h | 4 ++--
>  1 file changed, 2 insertions(+), 2 deletions(-)
> ```
>


Pushed.

Thanks,
Corinna



