# Re: [PATCH v2] Rename without-mingw-progs to with-cross-bootstrap

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-04-04T14:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160404144641.GB13238@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160404144641.GB13238@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/14-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/04/04/14-46-00)

On Apr  2 10:56, Peter Foley wrote:
> Rename without-mingw-progs to with-cross-bootstrap, since it now
> disables additional checks that are problematic for cross-compilers.
>
> When cross-compiling a toolchain targeting cygwin, building cygwin1.dll
> requires libgcc.
> However, building libgcc requires the cygwin headers to be
> installed.
> Configuring cygwin requries the mingw-crt libraries, which require the
> cygwin headers to be installed.
> Work around this circular dependency by making the
> --with-cross-bootstrap configure option skip cygwin's configure checks
> for valid mingw-crt libraries. Cygwin will still properly link against
> these libraries if they exist, but this allows configure to succeed even
> if the libraries have not been built yet.
> Since the mingw-crt libraries only require the cygwin headers to be
> installed, this allows us to successfully configure cygwin so that we
> can only install the headers without trying to build any
> libraries.
>
> winsup/ChangeLog
> configure.ac: rename without-mingw-progs option to with-cross-bootstrap
> configure: regenerate
> winsup/cygserver/ChangeLog
> configure.ac: don't check AC_WINDOWS_LIBS when using with-cross-bootstrap
> configure: regenerate
> winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog
> configure.ac: don't check AC_WINDOWS_LIBS when using with-cross-bootstrap
> configure: regenerate


Patch applied.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
