# Re: New modes for cygpath that terminate path with null byte, nothing

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-08-16T08:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20120816084058.GA20051@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20120816084058.GA20051@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/27/08-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/08/16/08-41-00)

On Aug 14 22:11, Daniel Colascione wrote:
> On 8/14/12 10:02 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Tue, Aug 14, 2012 at 02:49:17PM -0700, Daniel Colascione wrote:
> > > On 7/27/2012 2:32 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > There's just the problem of the copyright assignment.  If you want to
> > > > provide a non-obvious patch, or if the patch adds new functionality, we
> > > > need a copyright assignment from you.  Please see the section "Before
> > > > you get started" on http://cygwin.com/contrib.html and the assignment
> > > > form http://cygwin.com/assign.txt
> > > >
> > > > As soon as my manager has the assignment, I'll apply your patch.
> > >
> > >
> > > Do you guys still want the patch (and papers that go with it)? If so, could I
> > > discuss the particulars of the assignment off-list somewhere?
> >
> >
> > As I mentioned, it seems like you can easily get the functionality
> > you're looking for by using standard Cygwin tools so, IMO, we don't need
> > your patch.
>
>
> I didn't know what the final decision was; that's why I asked. Corinna
> said she wanted the patch. As for the feature itself: piping through
> tr is fine, but having cygpath output paths in the desired way in the
> first place keeps error information around (without pipefail, $? is
> tr's exit status) and involves fewer forks. There's precedent in "echo
> -n" too.


What's your problem with the assignment form?  You can send me PM
to my address as mentioned in the ChangeLog files.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


