# Re: w32api compiler warning fix.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gareth Pearce <tilps@hotmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-11-09T14:00:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [F89lepVsBmpJgjPoK3i000229a6@hotmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/F89lepVsBmpJgjPoK3i000229a6@hotmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/09/14-00-00)

> On Fri, Nov 09, 2001 at 11:32:22PM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > ----- Original Message -----
> > From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
> >
> >
> > > On Fri, Nov 09, 2001 at 10:32:34AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > > Nope, it's called....
> > > >
> > > > I've invested in a dual katmai 550 to be able to push the pthreads
> > >
> >
> > tests
> > > > a bit more realistically.
> > > >
> > > > HAL.DLL, ACPI and motherboard changes. How not to do it(tm).
> > > >
> > > > It's at times like this that I _love_ linux.
> > >
> > >
> > > I hate to say this but it is my Athlon 1.2G motherboard that is giving
> > > me fits.  It has been nothing but trouble since I bought it and it is
> > > running...  Linux.  It's less than a year old.
> >
> >
> > Lol. Well, I wasn't claiming I've never had hardware grief from linux ;}
> > jsut that Linux is _much_ happier about having the motherboard changed
> > out from under it. Win2k just gave up in a heap :[. I've finally
> > recovered the installed system (whew).
>
>
> Which is sorta strange.  I had a W2K installed on a P3 machine
> and assembled the full installed harddisk into an Athlon machine.
> W2K recognized all installed components and asked for rebooting
> twice.  Then it was done and the Athlon systems is still running
> fine (uptime > 2 months now).


At risk of pushing this OT on too far...
I transfered W2K from P3 to athalon as well ... and I think it would have 
been fine, except my new hard drive controller was too different from my old 
one (had raid support and nifty stuff), and W2K refused to boot in the first 
place (unable to access boot device message - which is odd since it was 
halfway through the boot process :P)

>
> Corinna
>
> --
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.



_________________________________________________________________
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com/intl.asp


