# RE: patch to mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-11-09T17:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA010A8FF0@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA010A8FF0@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/09/17-18-00)

I haven't done an assignment.  I figured this was a trivial change.  If you
want one I'll go ahead and send one in.

Here's a new Changelog....

2001-11-09  Mark Bradshaw  <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com>

	* mkpasswd.c: Add an option (-u) to only display a selected user.

Better?  I looked in the Changelog and modeled the new one after the few on
top, but I saw lots down below that used the same formatting I did.  

Mark

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ] 
> Sent: Friday, November 09, 2001 8:02 PM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: patch to mkpasswd.c - allows selection of specific user
>
>
> Looks nice.  Have you sent in your assignment?  I don't 
> remember if we've received one from you or not and the person 
> who could check for me won't be back in the office until Monday.
>
> Also, I think you want to look into ChangeLog formatting a 
> little.  The text below is not right.  Compare it against the 
> description in http://cygwin.com/contrib.html and the 
> existing formats in ChangeLog.
>
> cgf
>
> On Fri, Nov 09, 2001 at 06:55:22PM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > This patch allows a person to specify that only information for a 
> > particular user should be returned by mkpasswd.  It doesn't 
>
> affect way 
> > mkpasswd gets its information, but only restricts what is 
>
> actually output.
> >
> > I had it go ahead and stop requesting more users when it had a user 
> > specified AND got a match.  I guess it could be rewritten to only 
> > request info on a specific user.  I'm just not sure how.  Oh well.
> >
> > This patch worked fine on my win2k machine.
> >
> > Mark
> >
> > =============================================
> > Fri 9 Nov 2001 18:15:00  Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com>
> >
> >        * mkpasswd.c : Add -u option to allow specifying 
>
> only one user
> >
> > =============================================
>
>



