# Re: [Patch] setup.exe - no skip/keep option buggyness

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Gareth Pearce <tilps@hotmail.com>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-11-09T20:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [033001c1699c$8bfa35d0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/033001c1699c$8bfa35d0$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-14-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/09/20-01-00)

cross-posted to cyg-apps. Please follow up on cyg-apps.

----- Original Message -----
From: "Gareth Pearce" <tilps@hotmail.com>


>
> hmm I hope you tested my patch, because although I tested it with no


I did. It seemed fine.

> problems, if your original patch didnt work - I wouldnt be supprised

that
> mine fails for the same reasons...


Yours works because the state _SKIP is already handled. There is no
state for 'keep' - just states for PREV/CURR/TEST && a test for those
being the current installed version.

> this was what I meant about not knowing
> why it worked... I also thought being set to unknown should break my

code
> ... but only realised that after having tested it and having had it

work jut
> fine...


Have you done much work with FSM's? set_action() is a fairly typically
FSM transition function.

> if you want it to say keep instead of skip ... under the way my patch
> works...


...

Yes, for the UI that will work, but the internal logic still needs to be
straightened out. Keeping the gui unfixed will act as a reminder :} .
Thoughts anyone? For the post-category release I'm hoping to have had a
chance to do something on this, so that the impact shouldn't be huge.

...

> would submit a patch, but NTFS on win2k being read only mounted is

stuffing
> me arround... and I couldnt test it here in debian anyway...


You might try plex86, I'm intending to use that for testing, if I can
ever get it to work.

> cyg-apps for setup/winsup directory stuff? hmmm thought I read

somewhere
> that was not right... anyway ... I can do that :P
> and cautious is a not wanting to tred on toes just yet :P I am sure

that
> will change after patch 3 or 4 ... :P


Oh, don't worry about my toes, on public lists I tend to wear steel caps
:}.

Rob


