# Re: [PATCH]Package extention recognition (revision 1)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | Michael A Chase <mchase@ix.netcom.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-25T02:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1011953063.18172.21.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1011953063.18172.21.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/17-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/25/02-04-00)

On Fri, 2002-01-25 at 20:44, Michael A Chase wrote:
> ----- Original Message -----
> ".bz2" only 'protects' WinZip users until WinZip starts handling bzip2
> files.  That may never happen, but ".cwp" (or ".rpm" or ".deb") isn't
> vulnerable to WinZip improvements.


.cwp is hardly protection, it's just as, or more, vulnerable to Winzip
improvements. .deb and .rpm are more resilient, but hardly beyond access
for Winzip.

> > > The current un-patched code leaves off ".tar" inadvertently.
> >
> >
> >
> > I'll apply the lot if you'll
> > 1) cleanup the strduping,
>
>
> The strdup() was in one of the lines I didn't change.  I'll change it.
> While I'm at it, I'll look for other strdup() calls in the file and change
> them as well.


There shouldn't be any strdups elsewhere, I recall now why I hadn't
changed fromcwd.cc's strdup calls - because the code was commented out.
Having actually looked closely at this, I'm inclined to add a FIXME line
rather than your patch - not because your code is wrong, but because the
structs you are operating on are gone! (There's no info struct, and no
trust enum any more...).

> > 2) Answer my query about filemanip.
>
>
> The '-' lines below are from the unpatched filemanip.cc.  Notice the ';' at
> the end of the 'if' lines.  That causes the return after the ".tar.gz" 'if'
> statement to always be executed.  As a result, the test for ".tar" never
> gets executed.


Doh!. 

> My original patch (which I forgot to attach to the first message) included a
> test for ".cwp" to test the waters.  Should I add it back?  If I do, should
> I also add ".rpm", and ".deb"?


No, I think bz2 will last us until .deb or rpm is ready. And we
shouldn't try to read something we can't :]. However your patch still
looks wrong because it removes the .tar support - which costs us nothing
to have, and may be useful for someone :}.

> ```diff
> --- filemanip.cc-0 Thu Jan 24 16:43:57 2002
> +++ filemanip.cc Thu Jan 24 16:22:08 2002
> @@ -69,10 +69,12 @@ find_tar_ext (const char *path)
>    char *ext = strstr (path, ".tar.bz2");
>    if (ext)
>      return (end - ext) == 8 ? ext - path : 0;
> -  if ((ext = strstr (path, ".tar.gz")));
> -  return (end - ext) == 7 ? ext - path : 0;
> -  if ((ext = strstr (path, ".tar")));
> -  return (end - ext) == 4 ? ext - path : 0;
> +  if ((ext = strstr (path, ".tar.gz")))
> +    return (end - ext) == 7 ? ext - path : 0;
> +  return 0;
>  }
> ```
>


Rob


