# Re: [PATCH]Package extention recognition (revision 2)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-01-25T10:15:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020125181538.GJ27965@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020125181538.GJ27965@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../24/17-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/25/10-15-00)

On Fri, Jan 25, 2002 at 10:06:30AM -0800, Michael A Chase wrote:
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
> To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Friday, January 25, 2002 09:24
> Subject: Re: [PATCH]Package extention recognition (revision 2)
>
>
> > On Fri, Jan 25, 2002 at 02:59:17AM -0800, Michael A Chase wrote:
> > > And that test is still there, I moved it into the if () so something
> > > like ".tar.bz2" wouldn't trigger the return ....  : 0; If all the ifs
> > > fail, return 0; still occurs.
> >
> >
> > Hmm.  Seems like someone has "improved" this code from when I wrote it.
>
>
> Is the "improved" version my change or the way I found it?


The current version, prior to your change has been "improved".

> > My version checked for a trailing component.  If it existed, it
> > returned the index into the string.
> >
> > This version sort of does the same thing but if there is a .tar.bz2
> > anywhere in the string prior to trailing component, it will fail
> > regardless of whether the filename ends with .tar .tar.gz or .tar.bz2.
> >
> > Perhaps that is an acceptable risk but it puzzles me why anyone would
> > move from an algorithm that was foolproof to one that wasn't.
>
>
> I can go either way.  It is hard for me to imagine
> foo-0.0.tar.bz2.tar.gz being valid, but my patched version would accept
> it while the original version would reject it.


Ok.  I didn't look closely at your patch.  My version would accept the
above, too.

> Neither version is fool proof for some values of fool; both would pass
> foo-0.0.tar.gz.tar.bz2.  If you like I can move the '(end - ext) == x'
> test back to the 'return' statement.


I guess that's up to Robert.  The ChangeLog indicates that he made this
change.

cgf


