# Re: [PATCH 3/3] fhandler_pty_slave::setup_locale: respect charset == "UTF-8"

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-09-02T19:54:12+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200902195412.aa7f233231d893a7a065b691@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200902195412.aa7f233231d893a7a065b691@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../01/16-19-16.thread.md#:~:text=2020/09/02/10-54-12)

Hi Corinna,

On Wed, 2 Sep 2020 10:38:18 +0200
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sep  2 10:30, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Ok guys, I'm not opposed to this change in terms of its result,
> > but I'm starting to wonder why all this locale code in fhandler_tty
> > is necessary at all.
> >
> > I see that get_langinfo() calls __loadlocale and performs a lot of stuff
> > on the charsets which looks like duplicates of the initial_setlocale()
> > call performed at DLL startup.
> >
> > If there's anything missing in the initial_setlocale() call which would
> > be required by the pseudo tty code?  What exactly is it?  The codepage?
> > And why can't we just add the info to cygheap->locale at initial_setlocale()
> > time so it's available at exec time without going through all this hassle
> > every time?
> >
> > Apart from that, all this locale/charset/lcid stuff should be concentrated
> > in nlsfunc.cc ideally.
>
>
> get_locale_from_env() and get_langinfo() should go away.  If we just
> need a codepage for get_ttyp ()->term_code_page, we should really find a
> way to do this from within internal_setlocale().


I looked into internal_setlocale() code, but I could not found
the code which handles thecode page. I found the code handling
the code page in __set_charset_from_locale() function in nlsfuncs.cc,
but it does not return code page itself. Could you please explain
more detail of your idea?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


