# Re: /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Andy Younger <andylyounger@hotmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-19T01:51:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [F1338UJj1Nsjw6u1qzW00015e7e@hotmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/F1338UJj1Nsjw6u1qzW00015e7e@hotmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/19/01-51-00)

I stopped work on /dev/dsp as I did not require it to do any more. I have a 
couple of outstanding patches to apply (a compatibility fix or 2 and some 
work in decreasing latency (fixes Rocks & Diamonds)). I will see about 
sorting them out.

Read / Write support would be cool, as would /dev/mixer support if your 
feeling brave :-)

Andy.

> From: Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: /dev/dsp
> Date: Fri, 19 Jul 2002 10:27:47 +0200
>
> On Fri, Jul 19, 2002 at 10:06:12AM +0200, Jacek Trzcinski wrote:
> > 1) Who is really interested - excluding Nicholas :-) - /dev/dsp works in
> > read mode. It will prevent any possible future work to be useless.
>
>
> Even if other developers aren't that interested, perhaps, I know
> that some users in the cygwin mailing list are interested.
>
> > 2) Do You know whether the author of /dev/dsp (Andy Younger) or other
> > people work or are going to work to solve the problem. I can not
> > guarantee to finish any posiible work from my side
> > in predictable moment in time (a lot of work concerned with my job) so
> > if nobody is going to develop /dev/dsp I could step by step do something
> > to solve /dev/dsp reading problem.
>
>
> Go ahead!  Andy Younger disappeared months ago for some unknown
> reason so there's not anybody working on that.  And you're not in a
> hurry.  It's all voluntarily!
>
> Corinna
>
> --
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.





_________________________________________________________________
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos: 
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx


