# Re: Patched doc/setup-net.sgml

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-03-23T00:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030323002907.GA12737@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030323002907.GA12737@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/20-09-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/03/23/00-28-00)

On Sun, Mar 23, 2003 at 11:24:59AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> On Sun, 2003-03-23 at 07:11, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > I just committed a big pactch to doc/setup-net.sgml that more or less
> > documents setup.exe. Resulting HTML can temporarily be seen at:
> >
> > <http://iocc.com/~joshua/cygwin/setup-net.html>
> >
> > 2003-03-22  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>
> >
> >         * setup-net.sgml: Document setup.exe
> >
>
>
> A few comments ( hope I'm not duplicating feedback here):
> ```
> * The cache should not be the same folder as the Cygwin root.
>
> Can you make this "must not be". setup *will* choke :[.
>
> * For most users, the Direct Connection method of downloading is the
> ```
>
> best choice.
>
> IMO the IE5 method is best. I've been considering making it the default.
> The IE5 method will leverage your IE5 cache and or organisational proxy
> server for performance. It will also honour browser auto-configuration
> scripts.
>
> * setup.ini
> setup actually downloads setup.bz2 these days, setup.ini is a suported 
> legacy config file. I don't know if you want to mention that or not.
>
> * along with some basic information about each package (version number,
> dependencies, checksum, etc.)
> You might want to skip this bit, and / or link to
> http://sources.redhat.com/cygwin-apps/setup.html#setup.ini
> i.e.: "From each selected mirror site, setup.exe downloads a small text
> file called setup.bz2 that contains a list of packages available from
> that mirror. For details on the format see the setup.exe <home page>".
>
> * packages are divided into categories
> you might want to say 'grouped into', or 'categorized by'. divided into
> could suggest literal division of individual packages to a non english
> reader - i.e. /bin files go into the foo package :].
>
> ```
> * a very basic Cygwin
> to me, 'minimal' reads more clearly than 'very basic'. Just a thought.
>
> * If you are interested in what is being done, the scripts are kept in
> ```
>
> the /etc/postinstall/ directory, renamed with a done extension after
> being run.
>
> I'd rather not have this in the users guide. It's one more place to
> update when things change... A reference to the setup package creation
> guide (http://cygwin.com/setup.html#postinstall) should suffice.
>
> Fantastic job otherwise!


Megadittos.  Great job.

I agree with all of Robert's observations, too, fwiw.

cgf


