# Re: Patched doc/setup-net.sgml

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2003-03-23T00:55:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0303221949580.561-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0303221949580.561-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-55-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/03/23/00-55-00)

On 23 Mar 2003, Robert Collins wrote:

> [snip]
> * For most users, the Direct Connection method of downloading is the
> best choice.
>
> IMO the IE5 method is best. I've been considering making it the default.
> The IE5 method will leverage your IE5 cache and or organisational proxy
> server for performance. It will also honour browser auto-configuration
> scripts.


This doesn't work for me.  I'm still trying to figure out why, but since
the possibility is there, better err on the side of caution.

> * setup.ini
> setup actually downloads setup.bz2 these days, setup.ini is a suported
> legacy config file. I don't know if you want to mention that or not.


It's stored locally as setup.ini, though, isn't it?

> [snip]
> * packages are divided into categories
> you might want to say 'grouped into', or 'categorized by'. divided into
> could suggest literal division of individual packages to a non english
> reader - i.e. /bin files go into the foo package :].


How about "Packages are assigned categories, and one package may belong to
multiple categories".

> * a very basic Cygwin
> to me, 'minimal' reads more clearly than 'very basic'. Just a thought.


Minimal is overloaded to mean other things, though...  I'm not sure what
the right term here would be, "reasonable", perhaps?
	Igor

> [snip]
> Fantastic job otherwise!
> Cheers,
> Rob


-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

Oh, boy, virtual memory! Now I'm gonna make myself a really *big* RAMdisk!
  -- /usr/games/fortune


