# Re: provide __xpg_strerror_r

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-02-10T00:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4D532F6B.5080104@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4D532F6B.5080104@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/20-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/02/10/00-21-00)

On 02/06/2011 02:54 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > We already provide our own strerror() (it provides a better experience
> > for out-of-range values that the newlib interface), but we're currently
> > using the newlib strerror_r() (in spite of its truncation flaw).
> >
> > How should I rework this patch?
>
>
> It would be better if we implement strerror_r locally, in two versions,
> just as on Linux.  I think the best approach is to implement this in
> newlib first (I replied to your mail there) and then, given that we use
> the newlib string.h, copy the method over to Cygwin to match our current
> strerror more closely.


Here's the cygwin side of things, to match newlib's <string.h> changes.
 Surprisingly, strerror_r turned out to be identical even when based on
different root strerror(), so I left that inside #if 0, but it's easy
enough to kill the #if 0 if you don't want cygwin to use any of newlib's
strerror*.

---
```
 winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog                |    9 +++
 winsup/cygwin/cygwin.din               |    1 +
 winsup/cygwin/errno.cc                 |   84
```

+++++++++++++++++++++-----------
```
 winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/version.h |    3 +-
 4 files changed, 68 insertions(+), 29 deletions(-)

```

2011-02-09  Eric Blake  <eblake@redhat.com>

	* errno.cc (__xpg_strerror_r): New function.
	(strerror_r): Update comments to match newlib's fixes.
	(strerror): Set errno on failure.
	(_sys_errlist): Cause EINVAL failure for reserved values.
	* cygwin.din: Export new function.
	* include/cygwin/version.h (CYGWIN_VERSION_API_MINOR): Bump.

-- 
Eric Blake   eblake@redhat.com    +1-801-349-2682
Libvirt virtualization library http://libvirt.org


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin.patch40](cygwin.patch40) (text)
- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
