# Re: [PATCH] for SIGSEGV, compilation error in gcc 4.6

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-02-10T14:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110210140858.GA25992@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110210140858.GA25992@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/02/10/14-09-00)

On Feb 10 08:42, Charles Wilson wrote:
> On 2/10/2011 7:47 AM, jojelino wrote:
> > On 2011-02-10 19:02, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > > Also, it would be nice if you would add more words to explain what your
> > > patch is doing.  Just a patch with no explanation is not very inviting
> > > to take a look at it at all.
> >
> >
> > this patch deals with only "two" problem. and this is "first" one.
> >
> > static char * (*findenv_func)(const char *, int *) = (char *
> > (*)(const char *, int *)) getearly;
> > findenv_func is declared without __stdcall convention, and it is casting
> > getearly having __stdcall convention with function type without
> > __stdcall convention. to fix this problem, add __stdcall to findenv_func.
>
>
> "two-liner"
>
> +typedef char* (__stdcall *pfnenv)(const char*,int*);
> ...
> -static char * (*findenv_func)(const char *, int *) = (char *
> (*)(const char *, int *)) getearly;
> +static pfnenv findenv_func = &getearly;
>
>
> > and this is "another" one.
> >
> > this one deals with compilation error that gcc 4.6 complained. so i just
> > copy & paste __attribute__((regparm (x))) from function declaration to
> > function definition, so i must admit that this one was derived from
> > original cygwin source code. that is, you can fix it without this patch.
>
>
> "mechanical repetition of one-liner"
>
> I think this patch qualifies under the minor change rule for not needing
> an assignment...although it would be good for the OP to go ahead and
> complete the paperwork for future contributions.
>
> IANAL, blah blah...


Well, if you put it that way...


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


