# Re: [PATCH] for SIGSEGV, compilation error in gcc 4.6

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-02-10T14:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110210142933.GA29161@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110210142933.GA29161@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/20-43-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/02/10/14-29-00)

On Feb 10 15:15, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 10 21:47, jojelino wrote:
> > On 2011-02-10 19:02, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > > Also, it would be nice if you would add more words to explain what your
> > > patch is doing.  Just a patch with no explanation is not very inviting
> > > to take a look at it at all.
> >
> >
> > this patch deals with only "two" problem. and this is "first" one.
> >
> > static char * (*findenv_func)(const char *, int *) = (char *
> > (*)(const char *, int *)) getearly;
> > findenv_func is declared without __stdcall convention, and it is
> > casting getearly having __stdcall convention with function type
> > without __stdcall convention. to fix this problem, add __stdcall to
> > findenv_func.
> >
> > and this is "another" one.
> >
> > this one deals with compilation error that gcc 4.6 complained. so i
> > just copy & paste __attribute__((regparm (x))) from function
> > declaration to function definition, so i must admit that this one
> > was derived from original cygwin source code. that is, you can fix
> > it without this patch.
>
>
> Ok, I have just a problem.  Your patch doesn't apply because your
> mail client appears to insert line breaks if the lines get too long.
> Please send the patch again without the line breaks.  Maybe you could
> just attach it to your mail rather than inlining it.


Oh, and, would you mind to create a new patch which is against current
CVS?  It looks like some of your changes collide with changes already
checked in.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


