# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-10T19:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080310190840.GB16745@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080310190840.GB16745@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/10/19-09-00)

On Mon, Mar 10, 2008 at 11:34:44AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar  9 19:20, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, Mar 09, 2008 at 08:55:09PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Mar  9 11:03, Brian Dessent wrote:
> > > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > >
> > > > > I guess I misunderstood.  I thought that the current working directory
> > > > > could be derived through some complicated combination of Nt*() calls.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I could be wrong here but the way I understood it, there is no concept
> > > > of a working directory at the NT level, that is something that is
> > > > maintained by the Win32 layer.
> > >
> > >
> > > That's right.  NT doesn't have a notion what a cwd is.  It only has the
> > > OBJECT_ATTRIBUTES structure which defines an object by an absolute path,
> > > or by a path relative to a directory handle.
> > >
> > > The cwd is maintained by kernel32.dll in a per-process structure called
> > > RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS.  The cwd is stored as path (always with
> > > trailing backslash) and as handle.
> >
> >
> > Duh, right.  I knew that.  I've seen the code.
> >
> > So, maybe we could make sure the handle was inherited and pass it along
> > in a _CYGWIN_PWD=0x239487 format to the child?
>
>
> Well, sure, we could do that.  But here's still a small problem.
>
> The Win32 functions like CreateFileW don't have a way to use the
> directory handle together with the relative path name as the native NT
> functions have.  So, to be able to create an absolute path name, the
> application would have to find out the path the handle refers to using
> the native NT function ZwQueryObject.  What it gets, however, is not
> directly usable with Win32 functions:
>
> ```
>  Input path:                  c:\home\cgf
>  Equivalent Win32 long path:  \\?\c:\home\cgf
>
>  ZwQueryObject returns:       \Device\HarddiskVolume1\home\cgf
>
> ```
>
> By iterating through the DOS device list returned by QueryDosDevice the
> application could now find out that C: is a NT symlink to
> \Device\HarddiskVolume1 and then in turn create the path \\?\C:\home\cgf
> from that.  Sounds rather too complicated to me.


That much I do understand since I've been struggling with that issue trying
to get pipes to work reliably.

However, I don't understand what a mingw app would see when it is started
from Cygwin now.  What would a standard windows app think that its cwd would
be if it's cd'ed deep into a 32K long path.

cgf


