# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-10T20:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080310201053.GA11785@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080310201053.GA11785@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/10/20-11-00)

On Mar 10 15:08, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> However, I don't understand what a mingw app would see when it is started
> from Cygwin now.  What would a standard windows app think that its cwd would
> be if it's cd'ed deep into a 32K long path.


Right now, Cygwin copies its CWD into the user parameter block, as long
as it is < 260 chars.  When a Cygwin process cd's into a long path, this
copy just doesn't happen.  So, the cwd of a MingW application started
from that Cygwin process would be the last Cygwin cwd path < 260
characters within this process tree.

This is what I started to discuss in
http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-developers/2007-10/msg00008.html

As a result of this discussion we had five options what to do when
spawning a native app from Cygwin, if the Cygwin process is in a long
cwd:

1. Return ENAMETOOLONG and don't start the native child.

2. CWD for the native child is set to $SYSTEMROOT.

3. CWD is set to the root of the current drive (either X:\ or
   \\server\share).

4. CWD is set to the longest leading path component of CWD which still
   fits into MAX_PATH.

5. Start the native app in the last CWD we were in which was < MAX_PATH.

Implemented right now is option 5 since that's the most easy to implement
because it practically didn't need any changes to the existing code.

The general consensus seemed to lean towards option 1 or 3, so maybe
this whole problem is going to be a non-issue...?

Sigh, somehow it would be a pity if our own tools suffer from that
restriction.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


