# Re: console enhancements: mouse events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Thomas Wolff <towo@towo.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-11-10T16:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4AF99932.5090702@towo.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4AF99932.5090702@towo.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/11/10/16-47-00)

Corinna Vinschen schrieb:
> > > >  - Pressing something like Alt-ö on a German keyboard leaves an
> > > > illegal UTF-8     sequence (the second byte of the respective
> > > > sequence) in input, apparently     because Alt-0xC3 is handled
> > > > somehow. Don't know, though, whether this is     a cygwin
> > > > console issue or maybe a readline issue.
> > > >
> > >
> > > Alt is converted to a leading ESC.  I don't know how to fix that for
> > > non-ASCII chars, yet.
> > >
> >
> > For non-ASCII it works fine, thanks to Andy for clarifying; I could
> >
>
>
> Erm... sorry, but do we really talk about the same?  If you press
> Alt-ö, the console generates the sequence ESC 0xc3 0xb6.  That's not
> desired so I'm contemplating the idea to skip the keypress if the
> resulting multibyte char is > 1 byte.  This restricts ESC-somekey
> either to explicit function key sequences (ESC-[-foo, etc), or
> to just two byte sequences like ESC-A, ESC-0, ESC-;, etc.
>

I had not expected you to take action on this issue so soon:
> - Don't create ESC sequences for ALT-key keypresses if key translates
> ```
>   into a multibyte sequence.  This avoids stray bytes in input when
>   pressing for instance ALT-&ouml; (Umlaut-o) under UTF-8.
>   
> ```
>

- especially given:
> ...  And, whatever
> super-duper change we make to this essential console code in future,
> let's wait until after 1.7.1, please.
>

Actually, I think this is the wrong change. I'm sorry I came up with 
this confusion because I didn't test sufficiently, but as I said in my 
second mail
> For non-ASCII it works fine,

and contemplating again
> If you press Alt-ö, the console generates the sequence ESC 0xc3 0xb6.

I think this is absolutely the right thing to generate - after all, what 
else should be expected here?
The "stray bytes" are created in bash/readline, the previous behavior of 
cygwin console in this case was perfect, I'd suggest to revert, please.

Thomas


