# Re: console enhancements: mouse events

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, cygwin@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-11-10T19:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091110194348.GA28591@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091110194348.GA28591@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/08-20-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/11/10/19-44-00)

On Nov 10 17:47, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen schrieb:
> I had not expected you to take action on this issue so soon:
> > - Don't create ESC sequences for ALT-key keypresses if key translates
> > ```
> >  into a multibyte sequence.  This avoids stray bytes in input when
> >  pressing for instance ALT-&ouml; (Umlaut-o) under UTF-8.
> > ```
> >
>


I applied the change already an hour before your mail from yesterday.
It makes a lot of sense to subscribe to the cygwin-cvs mailing list,
since you see immediately what has happened in the repository.

> - especially given:
> > ...  And, whatever
> > super-duper change we make to this essential console code in future,
> > let's wait until after 1.7.1, please.
>


Well, it wasn't exactly a super-duper change, rather something I thought
of as a bugfix.

> Actually, I think this is the wrong change. I'm sorry I came up with
> this confusion because I didn't test sufficiently, but as I said in
> my second mail
> > For non-ASCII it works fine,
>
> and contemplating again
> > If you press Alt-ö, the console generates the sequence ESC 0xc3 0xb6.
>
> I think this is absolutely the right thing to generate - after all,
> what else should be expected here?
> The "stray bytes" are created in bash/readline, the previous
> behavior of cygwin console in this case was perfect, I'd suggest to
> revert, please.


I was just going to refuse your request, when I had this really spooky
idea of actually *testing* this in an xterm running under Linux.  And,
what shall I say?  Xterm creates the same ESC 0xc3 0xb6 sequence when
pressing Alt-ö.  I'll revert the change.  Note to self: "Testing doesn't
hurt".


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


