# Re: Fix dup for /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Gerd Spalink <Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2004-07-18T16:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.58.0407181221420.19508@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.58.0407181221420.19508@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/07/18/16-29-00)

On Sun, 18 Jul 2004, Gerd Spalink wrote:

> What I did:
>
> The static open_count is no longer needed because now we consistently
> use the return status from the windows API to decide if we can open or
> not.  This change is not related to dup.
>
> Wave header parsing needed a small fix. It was a +/-1 problem.
>
> To fix all cases of dup, a dup_chain is maintained to keep all duped
> instances consistent. I did not understand how to apply archetypes for
> this problem, and this solution works (test suite contribution is in
> separate patch).
>
>
> ChangeLog:
>
> 2004-07-18 Gerd Spalink <Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de>
>
> 	* fhandler.h (class fhandler_dev_dsp): Remove static open_count,
> 	add members to keep track of duped instances.
> 	* fhandler_dsp.cc (fhandler_dev_dsp::Audio_out::parsewav): Compare
> 	with <= end for the case that only the header is passed to write.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::open): Remove open_count; instead of query use
> 	start/stop to get wave device status from win32.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::fhandler_dev_dsp): Initialize new members
> 	dup_chain_next and dup_chain_prev.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::write): Insert call to update_duped.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::close): Check dup_chain before stop of audio
> 	device.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::dup): Create dup_chain linked list. Copy members
> 	by calling dup_cpy.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::dup_cpy): New.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::update_duped): New.
> 	(fhandler_dev_dsp::ioctl): Replace all inline return statements by
> 	setting variable rc. At the end, reflect any changes in duped instances
> 	by calling update_duped ().


Gerd,

I don't have time for an in-depth analysis, but after a quick look-over,
it looks like you're effectively keeping a reference_count, though as a
full list of references instead of just a count.  It looks a bit
heavyweight, but otherwise good, and I can't argue with success.  Just my
2c.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


