# Re: [PATCH] fhandler_tty deadlock patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Steve O <bub@io.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-10-21T08:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0210211051570.18735-101000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0210211051570.18735-101000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/10/21/08-17-00)

On Mon, 21 Oct 2002, Steve O wrote:

> On Sun, Oct 20, 2002 at 11:15:47PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > However, there are a couple of problems with this patch.  For example,
> > this makes bash run from a command prompt (or a shortcut) treat every
> > character as a ^D.
>
>
> So every character closes bash?  I'm not able to reproduce this on
> WinXP, have an strace?


Sure.  I'm attaching an strace for 'bash --rcfile /dev/null'; the
character pressed was a space.  This affects most programs, btw (vi from a
command prompt, for example, and tcsh), but not sh, cat or less.  My guess
is that anything that uses readline is affected.  I'm running Win2k SP2,
if it makes any difference.

> > /bin/sh ignores Enter (or ^J, or ^M).
>
>
> Good find.  I've attached a diff that should fix this.  Unsure
> how to proceed since the original patch hasn't been applied.
> Do I resubmit the original patch or treat this one as it's own
> thing?


Thanks, I'll try it out and let you know if it works for me.

> > Running 'bash -c "echo BLAH && exit"' from
> > a command prompt works, however, running "bash -c 'echo BLAH && exit'
> > ...
>
>
> Curious behavior, but not related to the tty patch.  Happens
> with previous cygwin dll's and in rxvt -e cmd.
>
> Thanks,
> -steve


I see.  Well, anyway, I sent an strace for that one, hopefully someone can
figure out what's going on.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Water molecules expand as they grow warmer" (C) Popular Science, Oct'02, p.51


---

**Attachments:**

- [steve_o-paste-bash1.strace.bz2](steve_o-paste-bash1.strace.bz2) (application)
