# Re: cygwin daemon/shm

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-17T15:07:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1000764497.1643.8.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1000764497.1643.8.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/08-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/17/15-07-00)

On Tue, 2001-09-18 at 03:01, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Robert,
>
> just so that you don't feel alone :-)


Thank you. I was wondering... :}.

> On Mon, Sep 17, 2001 at 01:33:46AM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > In this tarball:
> > * a minor newlib sys/types.h change, based on the ieee recommendations,
> > to make key_t as big an int possible. Note: as the only use for key_t is
> > in non-realtime IPC, this should break precisely one app: cyg_ipc, and
> > anything built on it.
>
>
> Can we put that into types.h now already?  Would rebuilding
> cygipc help for the interim?


If we put in into type.h now, every cygipc linked program has to be
rebuilt, and they won't gain anything - when cygwin gets IPC internally
they will need another rebuild. Putting it in synchronously with
cygwin1.dll exporting the ipc/shm functions is te right way to go IMO.

> > 2. Fast
> > Should be, it's aggressively multi threaded, using thread pools for
> > efficiency, and as the pool class has no globals, can be extended to
> > multiple pools for different requests queues if and when it needs that.
>
>
> I was more concerned about the speed of one single call of the
> client process, not about over all performance.  I'm thinking
> this is more related to the used TL method.


Ah, yes. Well I haven't benchmarked it, but FWIW my machine seems no
slower with it running.

> > 4. Secure
>

...
> > addressing the target, thats hardcoded in the class for simplicity...)
>
>
> Call me old fashioned but I'm still thinking of using DDE for
> 9x and NT.  Both have it,  it's _probably_ fast since it's
> implemented using shared memory and it has the impersonation
> functionality which is needed for NT.


Ok. I'll move the winsock out of the base class (it should have been
done anyway) and then it's simply a change to the object factory to
choose a different transport. I'll be curious to see what actually
benchmarks faster :]. 

> > Knowing how these things work, I'd like to propose one of the following:
> > a) when 1.3.3-3 or 1.3.4 (the thing with a make death fix/improvement)
> > goes out the door, and we have a little breathing space, this daemon
> > gets committed (subsequent to general file/directory layout discussion
> > and rearrangement as Chris requested). The shm and ipc functions _do
> > not_ get exported from cygwin, or they simply are not included in the
> > commit. (The goal is to add the daemon, not the tty_attach code or the
> > shm code per se).
>
>
> Sounds good.  Chris and I agree to treat 1.3.4 as a bugfix release.


Great!.

Rob


