# RE: Mouse support

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Town, Brad <btown@ceddec.com> |
| **To** | 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2000-12-15T08:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [F10D23B02E54D011A0AB0020AF9CEFE999EEAC@lynx.ceddec.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/F10D23B02E54D011A0AB0020AF9CEFE999EEAC@lynx.ceddec.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/12/15/08-33-00)

Yeah, this morning (Friday), CVS choked on my changes, too.  Attached are
some good patches that do the trick.

Brad Town


> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@sources.redhat.com
> [ mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@sources.redhat.com]On Behalf Of 
> Christopher
> Faylor
> Sent: Thursday, December 14, 2000 11:43 PM
> To: 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com'
> Subject: Re: Mouse support
>
>
> On Mon, Dec 11, 2000 at 12:35:52PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Mon, Dec 11, 2000 at 10:48:12AM -0500, Town, Brad wrote:
> > > Attached is a patch to fhandler_console.cc that allows enabling and
> > > disabling the mouse based on ^[[?1000h/l.  It's not 
> >
>
> perfect, but it works
> > > well.  Included is a ChangeLog entry.
> > >
> > > Also, terribly minor point:  It seems that the mouse code I 
> >
>
> submitted has
> > > been included in the CVS sources, but my ChangeLog entry hasn't yet
> > > appeared.
> >
> >
> > Sorry.  That was a mistake.  I'll revert the code until I 
>
> have a chance to
> > analyze your new patch.
>
>
> Apologies again, Brad, but I had problems applying your 
> patch.  It didn't
> seem to install cleanly to the current CVS version.
>
> I've reverted the changes that I unintentionally applied and have
> checked in a fresh version of fhandler_console.cc.  I've added some
> crude understanding of when a '<ESC>[?' is detected.  Could you adapt
> your changes to use that and submit everything all over 
> again, including
> an up-to-date changelog?
>
> When you do that, I'll check everything in.
>
> Thanks,
> cgf
>
>




---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog.mouse](ChangeLog.mouse) (text)
- [fhandler_console.cc.diff](fhandler_console.cc.diff) (text)
- [select.cc.diff](select.cc.diff) (text)
