# Re: pthread_testcancel() causes SEGV

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Thomas Pfaff <tpfaff@gmx.net> |
| **Date** | 2002-09-16T03:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1032172510.17676.117.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1032172510.17676.117.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-07-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/16/03-34-00)

On Mon, 2002-09-16 at 19:07, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
>
>
> On Tue, 10 Sep 2002, Robert Collins wrote:
>
> > On Thu, 2002-08-08 at 04:54, Jason Tishler wrote:
> > > Thomas,
> > >
> > > On Wed, Aug 07, 2002 at 09:34:14AM +0200, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
> > > > Thanks for tracking it down.
> > >
> > >
> > > No problem.  Thanks for the quick turn around on the patch.  I tested it
> > > and can confirm that it fixes the ipc-daemon service startup problem.
> >
> >
> > Jason,
> > sorry for the *cough* long delay.
> >
> > the attached patch is the 'right way' to deal with this issue IMO. It
> > also gives us full pthread* support for threads created using the win32
> > CreateThread call (although I won't officially support that at this
> > point :}).
> >
>
>
> Rob,
>
> you may have noticed that i have added similar code in my pending pthread
> patches.


I hadn't actually. I simply started at the oldest pending thing, and
reviewed it.

> Anyway, since you return a NULL pointer in pthread_self if something went
> wrong i vote for inclusion of my original patch regardless which patch
> will be applied for pthread_self.


Ah, good catch. I'll return a null object instead.

This object will fail in the method call, and log an error. It shouldn't
segv though, and we won't be introducing a null object check that
doesn't need to exist.

I'm checking in the current code, as I refactored to make some things
clearer before I introduced the NULL object.

Attached is my test program for this..

Rob


---

**Attachments:**

- [cancelwin32.c](cancelwin32.c) (text)
- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
