# Re: [PATCH 5/8] winsup/doc: Convert utils.xml to using refentry

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-16T17:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150616174933.GG31537@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150616174933.GG31537@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/12-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/16/17-49-00)

On Jun 16 18:33, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 16/06/2015 13:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jun 16 12:09, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > On 16/06/2015 10:45, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jun 16 10:28, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > > > On 15/06/2015 18:11, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > On Jun 15 13:36, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> > > > > > > Convert utils.xml from using a sect2 to using a refentry for each utility
> > > > > > > program.
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > Unfortunately, using refentry seems to tickle a bug in dblatex when generating
> > > > > > > pdf, which appears to not escape \ properly in the latex for refentry, so use
> > > > > > > fop instead.
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Uhm... wasn't Yaakov's patch from 2014-11-28 explicitely meant to drop
> > > > > > the requirement to use fop andd thus java?
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Is there really no other way to handle that, rather than reverting to
> > > > > > fop?
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > Now I try again --with-dblatex, it works fine, so that part of the patch can
> > > > > be removed.
> > > > >
> > > > > I can only guess I must have had some other markup error causing me
> > > > > problems, which has since been fixed.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I'm relieved :}
> > >
> > >
> > > Approved with that change?
> >
> >
> > Yep, thanks.
>
>
> Done.
>
> Note that the next time you build documentation for the website, you might
> need to take some special steps to add new .html files.


-v, please?

> and next time you build a package you might need to take some special steps
> to exclude /usr/share/man/


What special steps?  I assume a `make install' will install the
additional man pages now.  Wouldn't it make sense to install them as
part of the Cygwin package then, rather than as part of cygwin-doc?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
