# Re: [PATCH 5/8] winsup/doc: Convert utils.xml to using refentry

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-06-16T19:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20150616191712.GH31537@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20150616191712.GH31537@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/12-36-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/06/16/19-17-00)

On Jun 16 19:50, Jon TURNEY wrote:
> On 16/06/2015 18:49, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Note that the next time you build documentation for the website, you might
> > > need to take some special steps to add new .html files.
> >
> >
> > -v, please?
>
>
> Sorry, I wasn't being intentionally vague, but I don't know precisely how
> you push documentation updates.
>
> I guess you will need to do a 'cvs add *.html'


Oh, I see.  I didn't realize from the start that utils.xml is also split
into multiple html files now.

> > > and next time you build a package you might need to take some special steps
> > > to exclude /usr/share/man/
> >
> >
> > What special steps?  I assume a `make install' will install the
> > additional man pages now.  Wouldn't it make sense to install them as
> > part of the Cygwin package then, rather than as part of cygwin-doc?
>
>
> Ultimately, I think it would be a good idea if cygwin-doc was generated by
> the same process which builds the cygwin(|-devel|-debuginfo) packages.


Yes, that sounds right to me...

> But we are some way from there yet.


...and I'm open to patches to make it reality :)

> My thought was that the simplest way to do the transition is to exclude all
> the files currently owned by cygwin-doc until then, but maybe you have a
> different idea.


Hmm, no.  The cygwin package comes with the PDF and HTML files under
```
/usr/share/doc/cygwin-${PV}, the cygwin-devel package with the files

/usr/share/man/man3/regex.3.gz
/usr/share/man/man7/regex.7.gz
```


(and an undesired usr/share/man/man3/2.0.3.gz, which I only now see.
 Oh well)

In theory these man pages as well as the other doc files would be
ideally bundled with the cygwin-doc package at one point.

For the time being, I look into excluding the utils man pages in the
cygwin package.


Corinna


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [unnamed](unnamed) (application)
