# Re: Add xdr support

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-02-14T10:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100214101834.GO5683@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100214101834.GO5683@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../13/06-44-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/02/14/10-18-00)

On Feb 13 16:01, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sat, Feb 13, 2010 at 10:20:20AM -0500, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Feb 13 01:43, Charles Wilson wrote:
> > > > The attached patch(es) add XDR support to cygwin
> > >
> > >
> > > Cool.
> >
>
>
> I didn't get Corinna's response in email and it isn't in the archive.
> I assume that was unintentional?


Yes, sorry about that.  Apparently I hit the r button accidentally,
rather than the l button(*).

> Also, follow-up question: Should this go into a different library
> entirely?  Is it time to think about not just making cygwin1.dll the
> monolithic one-stop-for-all-of-your-posix-api shared library?


Ideally libcygwin.a provides all the API which is expected in libc
on other targets.

I don't know if that works, but it would be really cool if a single
DLL import lib like libcygwin.a could export symbols from different
DLLs.  That way we could create a cygxdr1.dll which contains the XDR
functions, but which could be linked against by just the default linking
against libcygwin.a.

However, that would be link stage magic which has nothing to do with
availability in source.  I have no problems with it being in newlib
(though I doubt I had the idea in the first place).  This way other
targets would get this OS-agnostic functionality as well.


Corinna


(*) Mutt users know what I mean.

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


