# Re: [PATCH] Prevent restart of crashing non-Cygwin exe

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-11-05T18:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20111105183044.GA27130@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20111105183044.GA27130@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/23/17-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/11/05/18-31-00)

On Sat, Nov 05, 2011 at 06:00:25PM +0100, Christian Franke wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Thu, Nov 03, 2011 at 01:07:20PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Nov  2 20:53, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > On Jun 24, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > Hi Christian,
> > > > >
> > > > > On Jun 23 19:52, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > > > If a non-Cygwin .exe started from a Cygwin shell window segfaults,
> > > > > > Cygwin restarts the .exe 5 times.
> > > > > > [...l]
> > > > > > 	* sigproc.cc (child_info::sync): Add exit_code to debug
> > > > > > 	message.
> > > > > > 	(child_info::proc_retry): Don't retry on unknown exit_code
> > > > > > 	from non-cygwin programs.
> > > > >
> > > > > This looks ok to me, but cgf should have a say here.  He's on vacation
> > > > > for another week, though.
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > > Problem can still be reproduced with current CVS.  Patch is still
> > > > valid.
> > >
> > > Sorry, I forgot about this patch entirely.  Chris, is that patch ok
> > > with you as well?
> >
> > No, it isn't.  Sorry for not stating this earlier.  The problem that
> > this code was intended to solve was actually a transient exit codes from
> > a non-Cygwin process which began with 0xc...
> >
> > I don't believe that I ever saw STATUS_ACCESS_VIOLATION in any of my
> > testing though so adding that earlier in the switch would fix this
> > particular problem.  I'll do that.
>
>
> Works as expected with testcase from my first mail:
>
> ```
> $ i686-w64-mingw32-gcc -o crash-w crash.c
>
> $ ./crash-w
> Hello,
> ```
>
>
>
> A drawback is that non-Cygwin programs crash silently.


Thanks for the patch but I chose to do this in a different way.  I've
checked in a change which should accomplish the task of having bash
report the correct error message while allowing easy future extension.

cgf


