# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Add spawn family of functions to docs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-02-25T12:55:20+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z72vqPAfwbpvLzpW@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z72vqPAfwbpvLzpW@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/21-46-49.thread.md#:~:text=2025/02/25/11-55-20)

On Feb 24 17:51, Mark Geisert wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On 2/24/2025 3:58 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Feb 17 11:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Feb 16 13:46, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > In the doc tree, change the title of section "Other UNIX system
> > > > interfaces..." to "Other system interfaces...".  Add the spawn family of
> > > > functions noting their origin as Windows.
> > >
> >
>
> [...]
> >
> > Actually, Jon raised some reservations against adding historical
> > msvcrt functions to the set of documented POSIX functions on the
> > IRC channel.
> >
> > We also have functions like _get_osfhandle and stuff like that.
> > Do we really want them documented in the list of POSIXy functions?
>
>
> I didn't see Jon's comments unless the "1999" reference covered them ;-).
>
> I have no issue with the Windows-derived functions going on a separate list.
> I only suggested the UNIX-* list because of the small number of
> Windows-derived functions being added.
>
> BTW The MSDN documentation of the spawn family of functions has their names
> all starting with an underscore character.  Should we follow that or not?


We don't export them with underscore.

> On the question of documenting these funcs at all (was that being raised?),
> I don't feel very strongly about it.  Maybe it would save one out of ten
> posts asking why our POSIX environment doesn't do this Windows thing?  /s


Yeah, good point.

> If the final decision is to document in a separate list for the doc pages, I
> can submit a revised patch for that.


We could add a "Non-POSIX, non-UNIX Windowy functions added for one
reason or another" kind of section to the end, I guess.  Even the
section name isn't quite clear to me.  It's kind of "Cygwin-only",
and that would then also include the stuff from sys/cygwin.h, i.e.
cygwin_conv_path, cygwin_internal, ...


Corinna


