# Re: [PATCH v2 1/2] Allow deriving the current user's home directory via the HOME variable

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2022-11-10T16:22:19+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Y20XK4VybCriMmn/@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Y20XK4VybCriMmn/@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2015/09/16/13-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2022/11/10/15-22-19)

On Nov 10 16:16, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On Mon, 24 Oct 2022, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Oct 23 23:04, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > > On Tue, 18 Oct 2022, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > [...]
> > > > That means, the results from the "env" method is equivalent to the
> > > > "windows" method, just after checking $HOME.  That's a bit of a downer.
> > > >
> > > > Assuming the "env" method would *only* check for $HOME, the user would
> > > > have the same result by simply setting nsswitch.conf accordingly:
> > > >
> > > >   home: env windows
> > >
> > >
> > > Except when the domain controller is (temporarily) unreachable, e.g. when
> > > sitting in a train with poor or no internet connection. Then that latter
> > > approach would have the "benefit" of having to wait 10-15 seconds before
> > > the network call says "nope".
> > >
> > > This particular issue has hit enough Git for Windows users that I found
> > > myself being forced to implement these patches and run with them for the
> > > past seven years.
> > >
> > > Given the scenario of an unreachable domain controller, I hope you agree
> > > that the `env` support added in the proposed patches _has_ merit.
> >
> >
> > Yes, I don't doubt an `env' method checking for $HOME even a bit.
>
>
> Cool!
>
> > I'm just not sure as far as HOMEDRIVE/HOMEPATH/USERPROFILE are
> > concerned.  Those vars should be left alone, but we can't control that,
> > so reading them from genuine sources is preferred.
>
>
> I do not recall the exact reasons because it has been a good while since I
> worked on these patches. But I do remember that we had to have a fall-back
> for the many scenarios in Git for Windows where `HOME` is not even set,
> and we specifically had to add HOMEDRIVE/HOMEPATH handling because
> USERPROFILE alone would lead to problems (IIRC there were plenty of
> corporate setups where USERPROFILE pointed to a potentially-disconnected
> network drive).
>
> > Sure, the downside in terms of the LDAP server is clear to me
> >
> > So I guess it's ok to allow the env method to read the values of those
> > vars from the env.  I would just feel better if we urge the
> > user to set $HOME and read that exclusively.
>
>
> I would feel better about that, too, if it was practical.
>
> But I cannot ask millions of Git for Windows users to please go ahead and
> first configure their `HOME` variable correctly, it took much less time to
> implement the patch we're discussing than asking all users individually
> ;-)
>
> And since there is nothing specific about Git for Windows here, I expect
> Cygwin users to benefit from this feature, too.
>
> With this context in mind, I would like to ask to integrate the patch
> as-is, including the HOMEDRIVE/HOMEPATH and USERPROFILE fall-backs.


Can't do that, sorry.  Two replies before I sent a necessary change,
which needs inclusion first.


Thanks,
Corinna


