# Re: [Patch] Loading the registry hive on Win9x (part 2)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, pierre.humblet@ieee.org |
| **Date** | 2004-11-22T16:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041122160142.GB31237@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041122160142.GB31237@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/22/16-01-00)

On Mon, Nov 22, 2004 at 10:48:30AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Sun, Nov 21, 2004 at 09:55:38PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > -  got_something_from_registry = regopt ("default");
> > >   if (myself->progname[0])
> > > -    got_something_from_registry = regopt (myself->progname) || got_something_from_registry;
> > > ```
> > > +    got_something_from_registry = regopt (myself->progname);
> > > +  got_something_from_registry =  got_something_from_registry || regopt ("default");
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > Doesn't this change the sense of the "default" key so that it will never
> > get used if a key exists for myself->progname rather than always get
> > used, regardless?  Maybe I'm the only person in the world who relies on
> > that behavior, but I do rely on it.
>
>
> Hmm, I thought that what went on before was that the "default"
> key was always read, but that it was overwritten if the other key
> existed. Is it the case that there is no complete overwriting,
> it's the union that counts? If so, I will put it back that way.


AFAICT, regopt calls parse_options which parses the options immediately.
So, the first call to "default" sets the CYGWIN environment variable
options from the registry immediately.

> I didn't know that every program was trying to read 4 items in the
> registry. Wouldn't it make sense to keep inheritable keys to the Cygwin
> registry branches on the cygheap, instead of walking down the hierarchy
> four times?


What kind of speed improvement would we see from this?  AFAIK, windows
programs read the registry all of the time.

> By the way, perhaps others in the world would also find that feature
> useful, but AFAIK it's a well kept secret. FAQ or users' guide alert?


It's user's guide fodder.

cgf


