# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-22T18:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.61.0411221333320.20353@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.61.0411221333320.20353@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/22/18-37-00)

On Mon, 22 Nov 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Mon, Nov 22, 2004 at 01:20:45PM -0500, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > On Mon, 22 Nov 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > On Mon, Nov 22, 2004 at 12:46:46PM -0500, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > > > Can the code simply propagate the actual exit code into the exitcode
> > > > field (since Windows programs don't know about signals)?
> > >
> > >
> > > And who would use it?  How would a UNIX program know that the "negative"
> > > exit code represented a windows error code?  A UNIX program would
> > > interpret the low order bytes as indicating a signal number and would
> > > think that there was a core dump if the appropriate bit was set.  The
> > > exitcode field is just for use by the cygwin DLL.  There is no way for a
> > > UNIX program to get more than eight bits (seven bits for signals) of
> > > exit code from a process.
> >
> >
> > Isn't that exactly what I said in the part that was snipped?
>
>
> Sort of, but then it's also close what I said I was doing in the
> original message, too, except I said "error code" instead of "exit
> code", maybe that's where the confusion lies:
>
> ```
> *I've also added an 'exitcode' field to _pinfo so that a Cygwin process
> *will set the error (sic) code in a UNIX fashion based on whether it is
> *exiting *due to a signal or with a normal exit().
>
> Since a windows program can't exit "due to a signal" the only
> ```
>
> alternative would be to consider it an exit code.


And what I was trying to say (perhaps not as eloquently as I would have
wished) was that it's better, IMO, to mangle the negative exit code from a
Windows app than to let it tread on the reserved bits.  However, I just
realized that if the exitcode field is 8 bits (which you may have implied,
but I most likely missed), the masking I was talking about happens
automatically, so this is a non-issue.  The only question is whether to
still mask out the 8th bit for negative exit codes, or whether it's ok if
Cygwin thinks the Windows program received some sort of a signal...
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"The Sun will pass between the Earth and the Moon tonight for a total
Lunar eclipse..." -- WCBS Radio Newsbrief, Oct 27 2004, 12:01 pm EDT


