# Re: Assignment received from Jacek Trzcinski

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-12T00:55:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020712095524.E10982@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020712095524.E10982@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/10-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/12/00-55-00)

On Fri, Jul 12, 2002 at 09:37:19AM +0200, Jacek Trzcinski wrote:
> 23 May 2001 Jacek Trzcinski <jacek@certum.pl>
>
>     * cygwin/fhandler.h: new members of fhandler_serial class - rts,
>     dtr and method ioctl()
>     * cygwin/fhandler_serial.cc: implementation of ioctl method from
>     fhandler_serial class. It supports three commands - TIOCMGET,TIOCMSET
>     and TIOCINQ. Changes made in other methods of the class caused either
>     by found error (in method tcflush) or by necessity implementation of
>     TIOCMGET(for RTS and DTR signal) in Windows 9x environment.
>     * cygwin/include/sys/termios.h: new constants added to support
>     ioctl method from class fhandler_serial


Hi Jacek,

could you please look over your ChangeLog entry again?

- Begin capitalized after the colon.
- Finish sentence with a full stop.
- Tell briefly what has changed, not why.
- Tell it for each function.
- The ChangeLog file is in the cygwin directory so don't mention
  the cygwin/ prefix before each file.

Example:

	* fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::fhandler_serial): Add
	initialization of dtr and rts.
	(fhandler_serial::ioctl): New function.

Either way, it would be nice if your changes would match current CVS
regardless what Chris said.  Quote: "If your patch is against the
current cvs source we will review it ASAP.  If it isn't, it will
take a little longer..."

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


