# Re: Assignment received from Jacek Trzcinski

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-12T07:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020712144938.GA4972@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020712144938.GA4972@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../11/10-04-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/12/07-49-00)

On Fri, Jul 12, 2002 at 09:55:24AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Fri, Jul 12, 2002 at 09:37:19AM +0200, Jacek Trzcinski wrote:
> > 23 May 2001 Jacek Trzcinski <jacek@certum.pl>
> >
> >     * cygwin/fhandler.h: new members of fhandler_serial class - rts,
> >     dtr and method ioctl()
> >     * cygwin/fhandler_serial.cc: implementation of ioctl method from
> >     fhandler_serial class. It supports three commands - TIOCMGET,TIOCMSET
> >     and TIOCINQ. Changes made in other methods of the class caused either
> >     by found error (in method tcflush) or by necessity implementation of
> >     TIOCMGET(for RTS and DTR signal) in Windows 9x environment.
> >     * cygwin/include/sys/termios.h: new constants added to support
> >     ioctl method from class fhandler_serial
>
>
> Hi Jacek,
>
> could you please look over your ChangeLog entry again?
>
> - Begin capitalized after the colon.
> - Finish sentence with a full stop.
> - Tell briefly what has changed, not why.
> - Tell it for each function.
> - The ChangeLog file is in the cygwin directory so don't mention
>  the cygwin/ prefix before each file.
>
> Example:
>
> 	* fhandler_serial.cc (fhandler_serial::fhandler_serial): Add
> 	initialization of dtr and rts.
> 	(fhandler_serial::ioctl): New function.
>
> Either way, it would be nice if your changes would match current CVS
> regardless what Chris said.  Quote: "If your patch is against the
> current cvs source we will review it ASAP.  If it isn't, it will
> take a little longer..."


Right.  I knew I'd regret adding that sentence.

Make that "If it isn't, and it doesn't apply perfectly, we'll ask for
it to be against current CVS source."  Your patch applied but there was
some "fuzz" and, of course, neither Corinna or I know if this is fine
or not since we aren't familiar with your patch.

cgf


