# Re: cygwin.din

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-12T14:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020712213532.GB12262@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020712213532.GB12262@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/12/14-35-00)

On Fri, Jul 12, 2002 at 10:15:26PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> I've been looking at cygwin.din (again) for a couple of reasons.
> While I was there I noticed a couple of issues and I've attached a
> patch for one (obvious?) typo.
>
> i) The entries for read(2) are:
>
> ```
>    _read
>    read = read
>
>  I've included a patch to make this:
>
>    _read
>    read = _read
>
>  (this crept in at 1.49, June this year, by the looks of it).
> ```
>


Thanks.  I've fixed this.

> ii) There's a rather suspicious entry in this file:
>
> ```
>    barfly = write
>
>  Uh? or am I missing a joke here?
> ```
>


Maybe it was something I added.  I assume so.  If so, the joke's lost
on me, too.  I was probably just doing some global substitutions and
needed something as a place holder.

> iii) How should I go about adding the new SysV IPC entry points?
> Rob added some as `shmat' etc. (i.e. just one entry, no
> underscore) but should these instead follow the `read' pattern
> above (i.e. as two entries, one with a leading underscore)?


No underscore for these.  The underscores are to be MSVC compliant.
I think that MSVC added the underscore versions to be POSIX compliant
or something.  I wish cygwin had never exported them.

I went through a while ago and got rid of the newlib wrappers that
just have write() call _write() since I didn't understand the point
of having a wrapper doing something that the linker could do for
you automatically.  The above typos are fallout from that.

> iv) More generally, why are there these two symbols (with and
> without the leading underscore) anyhow?  Any pointers for some
> information on this gratefully received.


See above.

cgf


