# Re: [PATCH v2 0/3] Support opening a symlink with O_PATH | O_NOFOLLOW

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2020-01-13T17:44:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1552bbe6-986a-0006-7afd-028eb0655f15@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1552bbe6-986a-0006-7afd-028eb0655f15@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../../2019/12/29/17-57-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2020/01/13/17-44-00)

On 1/13/2020 12:24 PM, Eric Blake wrote:
> On 1/13/20 10:53 AM, Ken Brown wrote:
> > On 1/13/2020 10:28 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Hi Ken,
> > >
> > > On Dec 29 17:56, Ken Brown wrote:
> > > > Currently, opening a symlink with O_NOFOLLOW fails with ELOOP.
> > > > Following Linux, the first patch in this series allows the call to
> > > > succeed if O_PATH is also specified.
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > >    O_PATH (since Linux 2.6.39)
> > >     Obtain a file descriptor that can be used for two  purposes:  to
> > >     indicate a location in the filesystem tree and to perform opera‐
> > >     tions that act purely at the file descriptor  level.   The  file
> > >     itself  is not opened, and other file operations (e.g., read(2),
> > >     write(2), fchmod(2), fchown(2), fgetxattr(2), ioctl(2), mmap(2))
> > > ```
> > >                          ^^^^^^^^^
> > >     fail with the error EBADF.
> > >     ^^^^^^^^^           ^^^^^
> > >
> > > ```
> > >
> >
>
>
> On BSD systems, you are able to run lchmod to change permissions on a symlink 
> (with effect on who is able to follow that symlink during pathname resolution); 
> Linux does not support that, and POSIX does not mandate support for that, so 
> fchmodat() is allowed to fail on symlinks even while fchownat() is required to 
> work on symlinks.
>
> > > That'd from the current F31 man pages.
> > >
> > > > Am I missing something?
> > >
> > >
> > > Good question.  Let me ask in return, did *I* now miss something?
> >
> >
> > I don't think so.  I think we agree, although maybe I didn't express myself
> > clearly enough for that to be obvious.  What confused me was the following
> > paragraph further down in the open(2) man page (still discussing O_PATH):
> >
> >     If pathname is a symbolic link and the O_NOFOLLOW flag is also
> >     specified, then the call returns a file descriptor referring
> >     to the symbolic link.  This file descriptor can be used as the
> >     dirfd argument in calls to fchownat(2), fstatat(2), linkat(2),
> >                                ^^^^^^^^^^^
> >     and readlinkat(2) with an empty pathname to have the calls
> >     operate on the symbolic link.
> >
> > I don't know why they include fchownat here, since the resulting call would fail
> > with EBADF.  So I didn't implement that in my patch series.
>
>
> I'm not sure if the question here is about fchownat() (where you CAN change 
> owner of a symlink on Linux, same as with lchown())


Yes, the question is about fchownat.  Are you saying you can change the owner 
even if the symlink was opened with O_PATH?

Ken


