# Re: [PATCH 1/1] make `cygcheck --find-package` output parseable

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christoph Anton Mitterer <calestyo@scientia.org> |
| **To** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **Date** | 2024-05-24T22:34:17+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [cc1242a20586e758a709985ba7d87b90bb556dd1.camel@scientia.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/cc1242a20586e758a709985ba7d87b90bb556dd1.camel@scientia.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/00-35-37.thread.md#:~:text=2024/05/24/20-34-17)

On Fri, 2024-05-24 at 17:24 +0100, Jon Turney wrote:
>
> So, this isn't really true, per the rules [1].  However, there are
> some 
> historical exceptions [2], which ideally we'd remove or replace.


Well, I guess as long as they still exist, respectively as long as it's
technically possible to have such, there should be a proper way to
parse.

Looking at the git history of that file, it seems that these exceptions
exist since quite a while, so it doesn't seem as if they'd be going
away anytime soon.


> Even with those exceptions, I think the heuristic of (i) split PVR on
> the leftmost hyphen followed by a digit, to split P and VR, (ii) then
> split VR on the rightmost hyphen, to split V and R, always gives the 
> right answer.


Ideally one would have something that makes parsing as simply as using
cut -d Y -f X.
The current schema fails even with some already more complex regexp
like `s/^(.+)-(.+)-[9-9]$/.../` because .+ is greedy.

So as you said, it would need to take the surroundings of the '-' of
the current exceptions into account, making the rule even more ugly to
read.



> That's not to say something like this isn't a good idea, but I think
> it 
> would perhaps be better to have an option explicitly produce
> something 
> machine readable (as csv or whatever...)


Well, any output like CSV, JSON, etc. would already need again some
smarter parsing tool.


Cheers,
Chris.


