# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pipe: Give up to use query_hdl for non-cygwin apps.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-03-05T09:06:48+09:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20240305090648.6342d8f9cb8fd4ca64b47d38@nifty.ne.jp](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20240305090648.6342d8f9cb8fd4ca64b47d38@nifty.ne.jp) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/05-09-07.thread.md#:~:text=2024/03/05/00-06-48)

On Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:38:07 +0100
Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar  4 16:45, ASSI wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen writes:
> > > Right you are.  We always said that independent Cygwin installations
> > > are supposed to *stay* independent.
> > >
> > > Keep in mind that they don't share the same shared objects in the native
> > > NT namespace and they don't know of each other.  It's not only the
> > > process table but also in-use FIFO stuff, pty info, etc.
> >
> >
> > What I was getting at is that a process not showing up in the process
> > list in one Cygwin installation doesn't automatically mean it's a native
> > Windows process, it could be a process started by an independent Cygwin
> > installation.  So this way of checking for "native" Windows processes
> > may or may not do what was originally intended.
>
>
> But that was my point. A "foreign" Cygwin process from another
> installation is not a Cygwin process.  Lots of interoperability
> just won't work, so it's basically a native process.


Actually, I think query_hdl can be retrieved from the process
from another installation of cygwin using NtQueryInformationProcess()
with ProcessHandleInformation. However, I cannot imagne the case
that the pipe is made by one cygwin installation but the reader
process is from another installation of cygwin.

BTW, what about v2 patch itself?

-- 
Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp>


