# Re: [Patch] regtool: Add load/unload commands and --binary option

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-03-03T13:21:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060303132128.GY3184@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060303132128.GY3184@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/24/20-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/03/03/13-21-00)

On Mar  3 13:12, Dave Korn wrote:
> On 03 March 2006 09:46, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> >
> > Btw., since you seem to be interested in hacking the registry...  would
> > you also be interested to introduce registry write access below
> > /proc/registry inside of the Cygwin DLL?  That would be extra cool.
> > I'm not quite sure how to handle the mapping from file types to
> > registry key types, but there might be some simple way which I'm just
> > too blind to see.
>
>
>
>   Hey, how about using pseudo filename-extensions on the pseudo-files that
> represent registry keys?
>
>   i.e
>
> $  echo "Foo" >/proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.sz
> creates /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName, type
> REG_SZ, content "Foo<NUL>"
>
> $  echo "%WINDIR%"
> > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.xsz
>
> creates /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName as
> REG_EXPAND_SZ
>
> $  echo "23"
> > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.dword
>
> ```
> $  echo "0x17"
> >/proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.dword
>
> $  dd bs=1024 count=3 if=/dev/random
> ```
>
> of=/proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.bin
>
> $  touch /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.none
>
> etc etc ?  (We might even want a $CYGWIN option to make the extension show up
> in dir listings, but it wouldn't be backwardly-compatible to do so in
> general).
>
>   Hmm, and how about for MULTI_SZ taking account of the open mode?
>
> $ echo "String1"
> > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.msz
>
> $ echo "String2"
> > > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.msz
> >
>
> $ echo "String3"
> > > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.msz
> >
>
> $ echo "String4"
> > > /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.msz
> >
>
> $ od -c < /proc/registry/HKEY_CURRENT_USER/Software/App/Key/ValueName.msz
>   String1\0String2\0String3\0String4\0\0


That's actually an interesting idea.  I was always thinking along
the lines of using POSIX file types (plain,socket,pipe,...).

However, file suffixes is something we're already suffering from
a lot (it's not by chance that SUFFix and SUFFer are so similar, IMHO).

What if a key "foo.sz" really exists and somebody wants to create
a registry key "foo"?  When reading "foo", which file is meant?
What's the order of checking suffixes?

When somebody writes to a key "foo", what's the default suffix,
er..., key type?  Or does that fail with an error message?


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


