# Re: [Patch] regtool: Add load/unload commands and --binary option

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Peshansky <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-03-03T16:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.63.0603031058150.9494@access1.cims.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.63.0603031058150.9494@access1.cims.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/24/20-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/03/03/16-02-00)

On Fri, 3 Mar 2006, Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> Btw., since you seem to be interested in hacking the registry...  would
> you also be interested to introduce registry write access below
> /proc/registry inside of the Cygwin DLL?  That would be extra cool.
> I'm not quite sure how to handle the mapping from file types to
> registry key types, but there might be some simple way which I'm just
> too blind to see.


Hmm, there is currently no way for the programs to find out the registry
key type, unless we introduce new functionality into stat() or something.

As it is, why would the programs need to know the key type, anyway?  They
just write the data, and fhandler_registry takes care of converting it to
the right format (using arbirtary conventions of some sort).  The only
potential problems are REG_MULTI_SZ and REG_EXPAND_SZ (in the former case
it's a question of picking a string delimiter, and in the latter it's
about annotating expandable values).

Am I missing something?
	Igor
P.S. Thanks a lot to Christian for this cool functionality.
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_	    pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu | igor@watson.ibm.com
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		Igor Peshansky, Ph.D. (name changed!)
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		old name: Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Las! je suis sot... -Mais non, tu ne l'es pas, puisque tu t'en rends compte."
"But no -- you are no fool; you call yourself a fool, there's proof enough in
that!" -- Rostand, "Cyrano de Bergerac"


