# Re: [Patch] regtool: Add load/unload commands and --binary option

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Peshansky <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **Date** | 2006-03-03T22:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.63.0603031711410.11990@access1.cims.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.63.0603031711410.11990@access1.cims.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/24/20-01-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/03/03/22-18-00)

On Fri, 3 Mar 2006, Christian Franke wrote:

> In fact I had the idea to hack the registry, in particular fix the read
> access to registry values starting with backslash:
>
> $ cd /proc/registry/HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/SYSTEM/MountedDevices
> $ ls
> ...
> \DosDevices\C:
> \DosDevices\D:
> ...
> $ cat \\DosDevices\\C:
> cat: \DosDevices\C:: No such file or directory


This is more likely a problem with Cygwin's path handling, which treats
any path with an embedded '\' as a Windows path that doesn't get
translated into POSIX (so you're not trying to open
'/proc/registry/HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/SYSTEM/MountedDevices/\DosDevices\C:',
but '\DosDevices\C:'.  Look at the strace to confirm it.  Maybe Cygwin
should check if a path starts with /proc/registry (or any virtual
filesystem) before deciding to not translate it...

> Using a URL-like "%XX" encoding for invalid characters (/\?%) may be the
> right thing to do.
>
> $ ls
> ...
> %5cDosDevices%5cC:


Yep, in effect making /proc/registry a managed mount.  You'd need
something like this anyway to process values that have '/'s in them.

> I found that all standard ascii chars except ^ % ` are used in value names
>
> > I'm not quite sure how to handle the mapping from file types to
> > registry key types, but there might be some simple way which I'm just
> > too blind to see.
>
>
> Because POSIX has no notion about file types, the type has to be somehow
> encoded into the name if a new key is created.


What's wrong with using open() flags?

> The major drawback of this approach is that the read path is different
> from the write path.
>
> I would suggest to add a second R/W view to the registry where both path
> are identical.
> A type extension should be added via a rarely used character:
>
> $ ls /proc/registry/SUBKEY
> reg_sz_value
> reg_binary_value
> reg_dword_value
>
> $ ls /proc/registry-rw/SUBKEY
> reg_sz_value,sz
> reg_binary_value,bin
> reg_dword_value,dword


Yep, except I suggested ':'.

> Then you should have the ability to copy subkeys to file trees and vice
> versa:
> cp -r /dev/registry-rw/SUBKEY /tmp/SUBKEY
> rm -r /dev/registry-rw/SUBKEY
> cp -r /tmp/SUBKEY /dev/registry-rw/SUBKEY
>
> Suggest to start a new thread for this discussion....


Right, good idea, except not on this list (as Dave pointed out).  What
would be a good place -- cygwin-developers?
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_	    pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu | igor@watson.ibm.com
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		Igor Peshansky, Ph.D. (name changed!)
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		old name: Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Las! je suis sot... -Mais non, tu ne l'es pas, puisque tu t'en rends compte."
"But no -- you are no fool; you call yourself a fool, there's proof enough in
that!" -- Rostand, "Cyrano de Bergerac"


