# Re: [PATCH 0/2] Fix a bad case of absolute path handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ken Brown <kbrown@cornell.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-11-11T09:10:33-05:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [981e78c7-fefc-e145-2d2f-b293266161d0@cornell.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/981e78c7-fefc-e145-2d2f-b293266161d0@cornell.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/20-32-51.thread.md#:~:text=2021/11/11/14-10-33)

On 11/11/2021 4:47 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov 10 17:22, Ken Brown wrote:
> > I can't immediately think of anything.  But is it really impossible to phase
> > out DOS path support over a period of time?  We could start with a HEADS-UP,
> > asking for comments, then a deprecation announcement, then something like
> > the old dosfilewarning option, then a more forceful warning that can't be
> > turned off, and finally removal of support.  This could be done over a
> > period of several years (not sure how many).
>
>
> Yeah, we might try again.  Just not over years, we'll probably lose
> track over time.  I'd appreciate a shorter period with a chance to see
> the end.
>
> The problem is that people are probably using DOS paths all the time.
> Makefiles and scripts mixing Cygwin and DOS tools come to mind.


So maybe an RFC email would be useful rather than a HEADS-UP, just to see how 
widespread it is.

> For the time being, I wonder if we could start with isabspath being
> always strict so at least X: isn't an abspath at all.


Sounds reasonable.

> > We could also put lines like
> >
> >    # C:/ on /c type ntfs (binary,posix=0)
> >
> > into the default /etc/fstab.
>
>
> Commented out, you mean?  Just as hint?


Yes.

>  We could do that.  Personally I
> don't like these shortcuts, I rather use a shorter cygdrive prefix, like
> /mnt, but I see how this could convince people.  Scripts with mixed
> tools will always be a problem, though.


Ken


