# Re: [PATCH 2/2] Move source files used in utils/mingw/ into that subdirectory

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-05-10T09:51:40+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YJjmDHgz2aAEon03@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YJjmDHgz2aAEon03@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/15-25-34.thread.md#:~:text=2021/05/10/07-51-40)

On May  9 16:16, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 06/05/2021 09:43, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On May  4 19:34, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > On 03/05/2021 11:48, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > What about adding -I../../cygwin -I../../cygwin/include to the build
> > > > rules and get rid of the relative paths inside the sources?
> > >
> > >
> > > That seems fraught as it allows cygwin system headers to be picked up in
> > > preference to mingw ones?
> > >
> > > Using '-idirafter' gets you a build, but it would be much more work to check
> > > that you've actually built what you wanted to...
> >
> >
> > Well, ok.  It just looks *so* ugly...  What about at least
> >
> >    --idirafter ../../cygwin
> >
> > and then
> >
> > ```
> >        #include "include/sys/strace.h"
> >        #include "include/sys/cygwin.h"
> >        #include "include/cygwin/version.h"
> >        #include "cygtls_padsize.h"
> >        #include "gcc_seh.h"
> > ```
> >
> > That would disallow picking up system headers and still be a bit
> > cleaner, no?
>
>
> After thinking about this a bit more, I'm fairly certain that using
> -idirafter with both paths gets us the same build as before, so I've posted
> a patch with that change.
>
> However, as written it's still a bit dangerous: any includes of system
> headers by those files included from winsup/cygwin will be getting MinGW
> system headers. I don't think that e.g. the value of ULONG_MAX is going be
> used by any of those, but there is a theoretical risk of them not getting
> what is expected...
>
> Perhaps the only safe way to write this is to put the numeric constants
> which strace uses into a separate header.


That sounds like a really good idea.


Corinna


