# Re: [PATCH v2] cygthread: suspend thread before terminating.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Jeremy Drake <cygwin@jdrake.com> |
| **Date** | 2024-11-19T10:45:41+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ZzxeRTIcGPxqeJND@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ZzxeRTIcGPxqeJND@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../14/16-24-11.thread.md#:~:text=2024/11/19/09-45-41)

On Nov 18 10:10, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mon, 18 Nov 2024, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Neat, but if this only affects the ARM64 emulation, shouldn't this only
> > be called under wincap.cpu_arch() == PROCESSOR_ARCHITECTURE_AMD64?
>
>
> Wouldn't this always be true though?


Copy/Paste and not thinking straight is doing that for me, sorry.

The above was supposed to be PROCESSOR_ARCHITECTURE_ARM64, but this is
obviously dumb either way.  What I *meant* was checking if we're running
in an emulation vias GetNativeSystemInfo or IsWow64Process2.  We're
using the latter in find_fast_cwd() already.

> (Except that I backported this to
> 3.3.6 for i686 support, where I'd have to check for that possibility as
> well).


Have I missed something?  I thought this only occurs in an
AMD64-on-ARM64 environment. What is it used for on i686?

> Is this just to avoid the code when a native ARM64 Cygwin appears?


No, the idea was running the code only if we know we're being emulated
on ARM64.  I just screwed up :}

> I have been sort of considering if the results from IsWow64Process2 should
> be cached in wincap, then we could check that here if we are running on
> ARM64 under emulation, and also used the cached value in the check around
> FAST_CWD.  In addition, I was thining it might make sense to include this
> info in `uname -s` like -WOW64 used to be when i686 was supported.


That might be a good idea in the long run and patches are welcome.
Right now we have this isolated usage of IsWow64Process2 in find_fast_cwd().
Given this function is called at least once in a process tree anyway,
wincap would be a natural place to keep the info.

And yeah, maybe we can just attach "-ARM64" to the -s info or something.

>
> > A one-line comment explain why ERROR_OPERATION_ABORTED is exempt from
> > the debug message might be helpful here.
>
>
> OK (if I can limit myself to one line ;))
>
> > > ```diff
> > > -	    chld_procs[i].wait_thread->terminate_thread ();
> > > +	    if (!CancelSynchronousIo (chld_procs[i].wait_thread->thread_handle ()))
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > This expression should be bracketed.  But actually, can you just change
> > this to
> >
> > ```
> >    if (chld_procs[i].wait_thread
> >        && CancelSynchronousIo())
> > ```
> >
> > please?  And another comment might be helpful here, too.
>
>
> OK


Thanks,
Corinna


