# Re: fix off-by-one in dup2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-12-05T19:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20131205195555.GA4938@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20131205195555.GA4938@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/23-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/12/05/19-56-00)

On Thu, Dec 05, 2013 at 06:45:22AM -0700, Eric Blake wrote:
> On 12/04/2013 10:51 AM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > > > > One question, though.  Assuming start is == size, then the current code
> > > > > in CVS extends the fd table by only 1.  If that happens often, the
> > > > > current code would have to call ccalloc/memcpy/cfree a lot.  Wouldn't
> > > > > it in fact be better to extend always by at least NOFILE_INCR, and to
> > > > > extend by (1 + start - size) only if start is > size + NOFILE_INCR?
> > > > > Something like
> > > > >
> > > > >  size_t extendby = (start >= size + NOFILE_INCR) ? 1 + start - size : NOFILE_INCR;
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>
>
> Always increasing by a minimum of NOFILE_INCR is wrong in one case - we
> should never increase beyond OPEN_MAX_MAX (currently 3200).  dup2(0,
> 3199) should succeed (unless it fails with EMFILE due to rlimit, but we
> already know that our handling of setrlimit(RLIMIT_NOFILE) is still a
> bit awkward); but dup2(0, 3200) must always fail with EBADF.  I think
> the code in CVS is still wrong: we want to increase to the larger of the
> value specified by the user or NOFILE_INCR to minimize repeated calloc,
> but we also need to cap the increase to be at most OPEN_MAX_MAX
> descriptors, to avoid having a table larger than what the rest of our
> code base will support.


I made some more changes to CVS.  Incidentally did you catch the fact
that you broke how this worked in 1.7.26?  You were taking a MAX of a
signed and unsigned quantity so the signed quantity was promoted to a
huge positive number.

> Not having NOFILE_INCR free slots after a user allocation is not fatal;


No one implied it was.

> it means that the first allocation to a large number will not have tail
> padding, but the next allocation to fd+1 will allocate NOFILE_INCR slots
> rather than just one.  My original idea of MAX(NOFILE_INCR, start -
> size) expresses that.


That wasn't Corinna's concern.  My replacement code would have called
calloc for every one of:

dup2(0, 32);
dup2(1, 33);
dup2(2, 34);

Obviously there are different ways to avoid this and I chose to extend
the table after the "start" location.

> > > That might be helpful.  Tcsh, for instance, always dup's it's std
> > > descriptors to the new fds 15-19.  If it does so in this order, it would
> > > have to call extend 5 times.
> >
> >
> > dtable.h:#define NOFILE_INCR    32
> >
> > It shouldn't extend in that scenario.  The table starts with 32
> > elements.
>
>
> Rather, the table starts with 256 elements; which is why dup2 wouldn't
> crash until dup'ing to 256 or greater before I started touching this.


The table is initialized in dtable_init() with 32 elements.  When it
enters main, it is still 32 elements, at least according to
cygheap->fdtab.size.  I just checked this with gdb.

cgf


