# Ping:  [PATCH] One liner to allow i786 (aka pentium4) in cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Kelley Cook <kcook34@ford.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-06-13T12:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3EE9BF64.2060204@ford.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3EE9BF64.2060204@ford.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../03/16-40-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/06/13/12-11-00)

A ping of this simple patch from ten days ago.  In the meantime, the 
sources.redhat.com
toplevel config.sub has pulled in the code to bless the 
pentium4-pc-cygwin target triple
as an alias for i786-pc-cygwin.

Note that as mentioned below either {mingw,w32api}/config.{guess,sub} 
should also
be updated to match the toplevel, or I have a really simple autoconf 
patch that will let you
delete those bogus copies and properly use the toplevel versions.

Let me know if you want to use that autoconf patch, for a cygwin 
specific patch.

KC

Kelley Cook wrote:

> This patch allows the Cygwin DLL to be configured and compiled for
> --{host,build,target}=i786-pc-cygwin.
>
> After applying a pending patch to the toplevel config.sub as well as the
> hand changing the questionable old copies of config.sub that need to be
> in the mingw and w32api directories,  I have configured, compiled and
> installed the DLL for --{host,build,target}=pentium4-pc-cygwin.  A make
> check showed zero unexpected failures and one unexpected pass:
> ltp/gethostid01.c.
>
> Similar patches have already been installed for the toplevel, binutils,
> libiberty, and newlib.
>
> I also have a simple autoconf/automake patch pending which corrects the
> need for the (IMO bogus) mingw/w32api config.{sub,guess}.  Should I also
> post that patch here for inclusion in the Cygwin versions of
> autoconf/automake.
>
> Kelley Cook





---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwini786.diff](cygwini786.diff) (text)
