# Re: cross compiling patches

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris Faylor <cgf@cygnus.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com> |
| **Date** | 2000-03-30T16:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20000330192529.A29634@cygnus.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20000330192529.A29634@cygnus.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../29/15-13-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/03/30/16-25-00)

On Fri, Mar 31, 2000 at 12:32:18AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> >
> > Mumit Khan wrote:
> > >
> > > Chris Faylor <cgf@cygnus.com> writes:
> > > >
> > > > On thinking about this a little, it seems that the only changes that
> > > > need to be made are in mingw.  Mingw needs the header files and libraries
> > > > from winsup/w32api but no other directories should need this.  So, I think
> > > > that changing the top-level Makefile is not right.  Can we change the mingw
> > > > Makefile instead?
> > >
> >
> >
> > I wonder if there is another trap waiting in this case but let's see. I
> > will
> > try it today.
>
>
> Ok, I have checked this out and it's not enough to change only the mingw
> Makefile.in:
>
> - In the top level Makefile.in the path to $$s/winsup/cygwin/include is
>  needed to compile libiberty. It's missing `io.h' else. I wouldn't
> change
>  this in the libiberty/Makefile.in because of the current version
> problem.


Ok.  I just checked and the top-level Makefile.in in the winsup version
of CVS is missing some changes that should be in the gcc version.  I'll
take a look at the difference between the two repositories and submit
an appropriate patch to Makefile.in.

> - In winsup/cygwin/Makefile.in `cygrun.exe' has to be compiled with
> ```
>  $(COMPILE_CC) because the linker stage results in the error
>  `-lcygwin not found.' 
> ```
>


Are you saying that the change I made to winsup/cygwin/Makefile.in
doesn't solve this?  cygrun.o *is* being compiled via COMPILE_CC.

cgf


