# Re: [PATCH] Re: IP_MULTICAST_IF et all / Winsock[2] value conflict

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2005-10-17T21:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20051017212639.GA19398@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20051017212639.GA19398@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/30/23-39-00.thread.md#:~:text=2005/10/17/21-26-00)

On Oct  3 12:25, Brian Ford wrote:
> On Mon, 3 Oct 2005, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Sep 30 18:39, Brian Ford wrote:
> > > On Fri, 30 Sep 2005, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > Actually we have two states, applications built before we changed the
> > > > header file and applications built after we changed the header file.
> > >
> > >
> > > Let's just not change it ;-).
> >
> >
> > No, let's change it.  Winsock2 is the way to go.  Winsock1 is just old
> > stuff.  Since Cygwin is using Winsock2 when running on a 98 system or
> > above, and since applications using the old/wrong Winsock1 values are
> > broken right now anyway, there's no gain to keep the old values and
> > force all new (and supposed to be working) applications to go through
> > a translation stage.  Let the old applications suffer, not the new ones.
>
>
> That's a reasonably convincing argument.  I just wish fixing this didn't
> require an application recompile.  I didn't think that was the Cygwin
> philosophy...<time passes>  Oh, you mean do the translation only for older
> apps?  That sounds good.


I've just applied a patch, which does all of that, removing the last remains
of Winsock1 support, as well as changing the IPPROTO_IP values in
include/cygwin/socket.h to the new Winsock2 values, as well as checking
for the applications ABI version number so that older applications get
the values translated into the new Winsock2 values in setsockopt/getsockopt
on the fly.

This still needs some testing.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat, Inc.


