# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Disable pseudo console if TERM is dumb or not set.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-08-31T10:16:51+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200831081651.GV3272@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200831081651.GV3272@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../26/12-00-15.thread.md#:~:text=2020/08/31/08-16-51)

Hi Takashi,

On Aug 31 12:26, Takashi Yano via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On Sun, 30 Aug 2020 14:49:25 +0200
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > I like the idea in general, but isn't there a noticable perfomance hit?
>
>
> I have measured the startup time of non-cygwin process
> with v2 and v8 patch.
>
> mintty with v2    : 92.7ms
> emacs-dumb with v2: 22.8ms
>
> mintty with v8    : 94.6ms
> emacs-dumb with v8: 22.7ms
>
> There is not noticeable difference more than measurement
> error.


Great.

> By the way, I have implemented timeout strategy for CSI6n, you
> mentioned in the previous comment, for a test. This check is
> done only on the first execution of non-cygwin apps in the pty.
> With this patch, first checks if the terminfo has cursor_home
> (ESC [H). If terminfo has cursor_home, ANSI escape sequence is
> supposed to be supported. In this case, I expect not to display
> garbage "^[[6n" even if CSI6n is sent because the parser ignores
> unsupported CSI sequences.
>
> With this implementation, pseudo console works in tmux as well
> even if TERM=screen.
>
> Please have a look v9 patch attached.
>
> The performance of v9 is also checked.
>
> mintty with v9    : 93.9ms
> emacs-dumb with v9: 22.8ms
> ANSI without CSI6n: 22.8ms
>
> [the first time in v9]
> mintty            : 94.8ms
> emacs-dumb        : 22.5ms
> ANSI without CSI6n: 63.5ms
>
> Most of the results are the same as v2 and v8 except for the
> first execution of non-cygwin apps in ansi terminal without
> CSI6n. It takes about 40ms (timeout) longer than dumb terminal
> in ANSI terminal without CSI6n support.
>
> However, this causes only on the first execution of non-cygwin
> apps in pty.
>
> I think this is the most reasonable one I have ever proposed.


This looks good, but I have a few nits:

- Don't use GetTickCount().  Use GetTickCount64().  Otherwise the code
  is prone to the 49 days tick counter overflow problem(*).

- get_ttyp ()->pcon_start is set to true twice in term_has_pcon_cap().

- Following the maybe_dumb label, you're setting has_csi6n and
```
  has_set_title to false, but these are the default values anyway.
  Also, setting has_set_title to false in the preceeding else branch
  seems unnecessary.  Do you want that for clarity?  If not I'd drop
  them.

```

With these minor problems fixed, I'm happy to push the change.

(*) I just noticed belatedly that GetTickCount() is used in the tty code
```
    already.  Can you please change pcon_last_time to ULONGLONG and use
    GetTickCount64() instead?

```


Thanks,
Corinna


