# Re: sigproc.cc (proc_subproc): make -j hang

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Ford <ford@vss.fsi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-03-08T22:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.58.0403081552120.10530@thing1-200](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.58.0403081552120.10530@thing1-200) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](21-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/03/08/22-03-00)

On Mon, 8 Mar 2004, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Mon, Mar 08, 2004 at 03:05:12PM -0600, Brian Ford wrote:
> > While trying to analyze my own strace example of a "make -j hang" ala this
> > ugly thread:
> >
> > http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2004-03/msg00376.html
> >
> > My last strace output from the hung make process was:
> >   69 1576822 [proc] make 6724 proc_subproc: pid 7524[0], reparented old
> > hProcess 0x698, new 0x63C
> >
> > So, looking there, I stumbled onto the following:
> >
> > 2004-03-08  Brian Ford  <ford@vss.fsi.com>
> >
> > 	* sigproc.cc (proc_subproc): Only call sync_proc_subproc->release()
> > 	once for exec().
> >
> > I'm not sure this is a bug, and it doesn't appear to fix the make hang I
> > was looking at, but I thought it deserved a quick review by someone who
> > knows that code :).  Thanks.
>
>
> While it probably shouldn't be doing what you discovered, the only effect
> your fix should have is to bypass a no-op call to muto::release.  Once a
> muto has been released, calling release again should have no effect.
> So, calling release twice should not be a problem.  If this was truly a
> problem then every exec would have a problem.
>

Yeah, I know.  Like I said, it doesn't fix my problem.

Just practicing my "stupid patch tricks" again :).  I'm getting good at
them.  Now, if I can just get good a "really useful patch tricks", that
would be great!

> What seems to be happening in the CVS version of cygwin is that cygwin
> routines are getting incorrectly interrupted during the function
> execution instead of after the function returns.
>

You still see this behavior after your fix?  I think the problem has
now changed to the 0% CPU make hang, as others have stated.

BTW, did moving the ProtectHandle1 call at line 349 outside the lock cause
a race with the ForceCloseHandle1 at line 516 in proc_terminate?  My
limited testing shows much greater stability when it is moved back in.
Just curious.

-- 
Brian Ford
Senior Realtime Software Engineer
VITAL - Visual Simulation Systems
FlightSafety International
Phone: 314-551-8460
Fax:   314-551-8444


