# Re: [PATCH] Patch for MTinterface

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Thomas Pfaff <tpfaff@gmx.net> |
| **Date** | 2002-11-05T05:29:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [1036502950.17049.51.camel@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/1036502950.17049.51.camel@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-14-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/05/05-29-00)

On Wed, 2002-11-06 at 00:14, Thomas Pfaff wrote:
>
> I have discovered some problems with the current MTinterface
> implementation. Here are 2 test cases:
>
> Even if the handles would be valid the pthread_join call would try to
> delete a thread object that is created static which would result in a
> corrupted heap.


Ouch. Good catch.

> 2: fork related
>
> The forked child will not get the same thread handle as its parent, it
> will get the thread handle from the main thread instead. The child will
> not terminate because the threadcount is still 2 after the fork (it is
> set to 1 in MTinterface::Init and then set back to 2 after the childs
> memory gets overwritten by the parent).


For memory that should not be copied, mark it with NO_COPY in the
declaration. MTinterface is set thusly IIRC.

> And i do not agree with the the current pthread_self code where the
> threadcount is incremented if a new thread handle has been created but
> never gets decremented (i do not expect that threads that are not created
> by pthread_created will terminate via pthread_exit). And the newly created
> object never gets freed.


The dllinit routine will take care of this when we get that implemented
again. I don't 

> To avoid these errors i have made changes that will create the mainthread
> object dynamic and store the reents and thread self pointer via fork safe
> keys.


Overall this looks good. What happens to non-cygwinapi created threads
now though? You mention you don't agree with the code, but I can't see
(from a brief look) how you correct it.

BTW: I'm currently packing to move house, so don't expect much feedback
until late next week, or early the week after :[.

Rob
-- 
---
GPG key available at: http://users.bigpond.net.au/robertc/keys.txt.
---


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
