# Re: Patch to allow trailing dots on managed mounts

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-20T03:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041219215720.0082da20@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041219215720.0082da20@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/14-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/20/03-02-00)

At 09:44 PM 12/18/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> For now, I'm disallowing all use of '.\' and ' \' in a path.  It seems
> more consistent to disallow everything than to allow some stuff.  I
> didn't change the symlink code to disallow "ln -s foo bar..."  If someone
> actually complains about this, maybe I will.
>
> So, "ls /bin........." works, "ls /bin./pwd.exe" doesn't work and "ls
> /cygwin/c/cygwin/bin./pwd.exe" doesn't work either.  Nor does
> "ls c:\cygwin\bin.\pwd.exe".  I don't know if we'll hear complaints about
> this one or not.


Excellent decisions. 
Although ls would work with 'bin./', NtCreateFile couldn't open the
file and things requiring a handle (like the inode) would be 
reported incorrectly.

Do you intent to remove the dot checking code in normalize_xxx_path?
It now seems to be useless and even counterproductive.

> > Also, for my info, what is the unc\ in
> >       !strncasematch (this->path + 4, "unc\\", 4)))
> > around line 868? I have never seen that documented.
>
>
> I've always wondered about that myself.  I am pretty sure it predates
> me.  I've removed that test.  It doesn't make any sense to me either.


Thanks. I made some progress on that one, looking at 
path_conv::get_nt_native_path.

\\.\unc\computer\share indicates a remote share. So apparently the intention
was to add a final \ in that case, but not on \\.\c: (according to the
comment) nor on \\.\c:\somedir   (why not??), and never with PC_FULL.
Is there ever any reason to add a \ to a Windows path?

Now, I checked (on XP Home) that "dir \\.\c:" does NOT work, while "dir \\.\c:\"
does work, which seems to contradict the intention in the comment.
Also "ls //./c:" does not work, but neither does "ls //./c:/", because Cygwin
strips the final '/' and it's needed for GetFileAttributes (fails with WinError 87).
path_conv will probably never be completely right!  

Pierre


