# Re: Patch to allow trailing dots on managed mounts

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-12-20T15:53:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [41C6F57E.2D058229@phumblet.no-ip.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/41C6F57E.2D058229@phumblet.no-ip.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../16/14-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/12/20/15-53-00)


Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> On Mon, Dec 20, 2004 at 11:23:29AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec 19 21:57, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > At 09:44 PM 12/18/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > >
> > > > For now, I'm disallowing all use of '.\' and ' \' in a path.  It seems
> > > > more consistent to disallow everything than to allow some stuff.  I
> > > > didn't change the symlink code to disallow "ln -s foo bar..."  If someone
> > > > actually complains about this, maybe I will.
> > > >
> > > > So, "ls /bin........." works, "ls /bin./pwd.exe" doesn't work and "ls
> > > > /cygwin/c/cygwin/bin./pwd.exe" doesn't work either.  Nor does
> > > > "ls c:\cygwin\bin.\pwd.exe".  I don't know if we'll hear complaints about
> > > > this one or not.
> > >
> >
> >
> > I guess we will.  The trailing dots are not removed from the POSIX path
> > in case of chdir, but the chdir itself succeeds.  That leads to an
> > unexpected result:
> >
> > ```
> > $ cd /bin...
> > $ pwd
> > /bin...                <- This was printed as /bin before
> > $ ls sh.exe
> > ```
> >
> > ls: sh.exe: No such file or directory
> >
> > In terms of consistancy it should be impossible to chdir already,
> > shouldn't it?
>
>
> If we're allowing trailing dots then I guess we should strip them from the
> posix path as well as the windows path.


chdir should be the only case where this matters.
We can either disallow it, or strip the tail.
I prefer the latter.

Stripping from the Posix path can't be done during normalize_
because it would apply to all paths (not only disk).

It's easy to fix posix_cwd at the end of cwdstuff::set, 
only in the case where "doit" is true.
We should also strip win32_cwd there because it will be used
to build an absolute path in normalize_win32_path.

> > > Do you intent to remove the dot checking code in normalize_xxx_path?
> > > It now seems to be useless and even counterproductive.
> >
> >
> > AFAICS, this code could go.
>
>
> We're talking about this code, right?


Right.

Pierre


