# Re: [PATCH] Re: Cygwin select() issues and improvements

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-03-14T10:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20160314101257.GE3567@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20160314101257.GE3567@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/14/08-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/03/14/10-13-00)

Hi John,

On Mar 13 17:37, john hood wrote:
> On 3/4/16 3:58 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > John,
> >
> >
> > Ping?  I'd be interested to get your patches into Cygwin.  select
> > really needs some kicking :)
>
>
> Sorry to be so slow responding.  Here's a rebased, squashed,
> changelog-ified patch,


Thank you.  Uhm... I just don't understand why you squashed them into a
single big patch.  Multiple independent smaller patches are better to
handle, especially when looking for potential bugs later.

Would you mind terribly to split them again?

> and I've sent an assignment in to Red Hat.


Cool, thanks!  This might take a few days.

> Aside:  Why maintain Git comments in ChangeLog format?  That made sense
> up into the CVS era, but now version control systems and viewers provide
> most of the details that a ChangeLog needed to list, and newlib/Cygwin
> has stopped maintaining ChangeLogs.


It's probably the "get off my lawn" mentality of old, die-hard CVS users.
Both, Jeff and I, the maintainers of newlib and Cygwin are such specimen.

I'm in the process of reconsidering it for Cygwin-related logs.  I'm still
mostly sticking to these ChangeLog entries, but I'm moving over to adding
textual descriptions to the git log.  See my latest commits for examples.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
