# RE: Threaded Cygwin Python Import Problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Norman Vine <nhv@cape.com> |
| **To** | 'Jason Tishler' <Jason.Tishler@dothill.com>, 'Python-Dev' <python-dev@python.org> |
| **Date** | 2001-06-30T06:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [015601c10166$eb79bb00$a300a8c0@nhv](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/015601c10166$eb79bb00$a300a8c0@nhv) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/30/06-12-00)

Jason Tishler
>
> Thanks to Rob Collins (implementer) and Greg Smith (profiler), Cygwin now
> provides enough pthreads support so that Cygwin Python builds OOTB *and*
> functions reasonably well even with threads enabled.  Unfortunately,
> there are still a few issues that need to be resolved.
>
> The one that I would like to address in this posting prevents a threaded
> Cygwin Python from building the standard extension modules (without some
> kind of intervention).  :,(  Specifically, the build would frequently
> hang during the Distutils part when Cygwin Python is attempting to execvp
> a gcc process.
>
> See the first attachment, test.py, for a minimal Python script that
> exhibits the hang.  See the second attachment, test.c, for a rewrite
> of test.py in C.  Since test.c did not hang, I was able to conclude that
> this was not just a straight Cygwin problem.
>
> Further tracing uncovered that the hang occurs in _execvpe() (in os.py),
> when the child tries to import tempfile.  If I apply the third >attachment,
> os.py.patch, then the hang is avoided.  Hence, it appears that importing a
> module (or specifically the tempfile module) in a threaded Cygwin Python
> child cause a hang.
>
> I saw the following comment in _execvpe():
>
> ```
>    #  Process handling (fork, wait) under BeOS (up to 5.0)
>    #  doesn't interoperate reliably with the thread interlocking
>    #  that happens during an import.  The actual error we need
>    #  is the same on BeOS for posix.open() et al., ENOENT.
>
> ```
>
> The above makes me think that possibly Cygwin is having a
> similar problem.
>
> Can anyone offer suggestions on how to further debug this problem?


I was experiencing the same problems as Jason with Win2k sp1 and
had used the same work-around successfully.
< I believe Jason is working with NT 4.0 sp 5 >

Curiously after applying the Win2k sp2 I no longer need to do this
and the original Python code works fine.

Leading me to believe that this may be but a symptom of a another
Windows mystery.

Regards

Norman Vine


