# Re: [PATCH]List Categories and Requireds in setup.log.full

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-06-30T20:17:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010630231734.A2590@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010630231734.A2590@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-03-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/06/30/20-17-00)

On Sat, Jun 30, 2001 at 02:59:33PM -0700, Michael A. Chase wrote:
> I don't know where to start, but perhaps the choose dialog box's
> horizontal size could be set dynamically.  We seem to go through having
> to re-size it by hand rather often.  In this case, I simply bumped the
> applicable x dimensions by 100.


I agree that the dialog box should be auto-resized.  I'd have to
research where to start with this.  I think I did this in a previous
life but I don't remember how.

> In do_choose(), I also re-restored the change that removed "\r" from
> messages sent to setup.log.full and again changed the source_exists
> logic so local copies of source archives are mentioned in
> setup.log.full.  I don't mention them in this ChangeLog entry since
> they are already in ChangeLog.


I checked in most of these.  I didn't checkin your changes to make the
log messages indicate the function where the error occurred.  I agree
that this is useful information but I don't think that we should be
adding it in only these two places.  I think that log() should probably
be a macro that passes __PRETTY_FUNCTION__ as the first argument to a
__log function.  Then every log message will have the function name
automatically.  This is basically how cygwin does it.

I also didn't check in your other changes to set_action.  I would rather
keep the tests all within one switch statement.

Thanks for the patch!
cgf


