# Re: [PATCH v7 2/7] Cygwin: pty: Add workaround for handling of backspace when pcon enabled

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Johannes Schindelin <Johannes.Schindelin@gmx.de> |
| **To** | Takashi Yano <takashi.yano@nifty.ne.jp> |
| **Date** | 2026-03-28T11:33:17+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [463c3df7-3810-ed9a-9f7c-c2cf4fd6a7b7@gmx.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/463c3df7-3810-ed9a-9f7c-c2cf4fd6a7b7@gmx.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/14-24-36.thread.md#:~:text=2026/03/28/10-33-17)

Hi Takashi,

On Sat, 28 Mar 2026, Takashi Yano wrote:

> On Fri, 27 Mar 2026 14:25:50 +0100 (CET)
> Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> >
> > One open question that I already asked in
> >
> >   https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c4dc071d-fa7e-ed2e-0c14-3fddb5240f1c@gmx.de/
> >
> > but have not yet received an answer to: how was this bug originally
> > discovered/reproduced? I still do not know how to trigger the
> > Backspace problem in a regular Windows Terminal running on
> > OpenConsole.exe, and I need a concrete repro to test the upstream fix
> > I prepared.
>
>
> I encountered the issue that Ctrl-H on cmd.exe running in pseudo console
> erases word (not char). This is because, Ctrl-H (0x08) is translated to
> Ctrl-Backspace in conhost.exe which erases a word (in Windows 11).


Ah! Running `Cygwin.bat`, then launching `mintty`, and in that
newly-opened MinTTY's Bash, type `abc` and then _not_ Backspace but Ctrl+H
does indeed delete all three characters, not just `c`.

> But I do not see similar problem in Windows Terminal. In Windoes Terminal,
> both Ctrl-H and Backspace are translated to 0x08. I'm not sure why.


This might be a `conhost.exe` vs `OpenConsole.exe` thing, i.e. the fact
that the former is lagging behind the latter.

But then, if I run Cygwin's `bash.exe -li` in a `conhost.exe`, then launch
`cmd.exe` inside it, then type `abc` followed by Ctrl+H, it only deleted
the `c`, so maybe I am holding this thing wrong?

This is all done in Windows 10.0.26200.7985, so maybe there's a version
difference to your setup?

Ciao,
Johannes


