# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: accept SCHED_OTHER, SCHED_FIFO and SCHED_RR

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-12-02T11:53:24-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [b666a71c-2c45-4343-ab3c-acc2344bb738@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/b666a71c-2c45-4343-ab3c-acc2344bb738@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/29/17-48-29.thread.md#:~:text=2024/12/02/18-53-24)

On 2024-12-02 10:33, Christian Franke wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 29 18:48, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > A very first attempt to let sched_setscheduler() do something possibly
> > > useful.
> > >
> > > This patch is on top of
> > > Cygwin: setpriority, sched_setparam: add missing process access right
> >
> >
> > Looks quite nice.  If you're confident this is ready for the main
> > branch, just give the word!
>
>
> Yes, initial tests look good. Related documentation update attached.


ISTR those settings from that priority mapping documented somewhere -
winsup/doc/specialnames.xml pathnames-proc "The /proc filesystem" proc(5) 
/proc/PID/stat (18) priority and (19) nice - which are generated as proc.5 and 
cygwin-ug-net/proc.html for cygwin-doc package.

Package man-pages-linux also has /usr/share/man/linux/man5/proc_pid_stat.5.gz 
which it would be good to compare set see if there were conflicts?

It would be good to state in a release note what has changed in the mapping or 
effect e.g. SCHED_OTHER now uses only NICE and SCHED_FIFO/RR use only PRIORITY?

I will have to search my Cygwin docs and code to see where things are mentioned 
or used.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


