# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: mmap: fix mapping beyond EOF on 64 bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-07-20T17:41:39+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200720154139.GL16360@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200720154139.GL16360@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-34-42.thread.md#:~:text=2020/07/20/15-41-39)

On Jul 20 10:58, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On 7/20/2020 10:49 AM, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > On 7/20/2020 10:43 AM, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On 7/20/2020 10:23 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On Jul 20 09:34, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > > Commit 605bdcd410384dda6db66b9b8cd19e863702e1bb enabled mapping beyond
> > > > > EOF in 64 bit environments.  But the variable 'orig_len' did not get
> > > > > rounded up to a multiple of 64K.  This rounding was done on 32 bit
> > > > > only.  Fix this by rounding up orig_len on 64 bit, in the same place
> > > > > where 'len' is rounded up.
> > > > >
> > > > > One consequence of this bug is that orig_len could be slightly smaller
> > > > > than len.  Since these are both unsigned values, the statement
> > > > > 'orig_len -= len' would then cause orig_len to be huge, and mmap would
> > > > > fail with errno EFBIG.
> > > > >
> > > > > I observed this failure while debugging the problem reported in
> > > > >
> > > > >    https://sourceware.org/pipermail/cygwin/2020-July/245557.html.
> > > > >
> > > > > The failure can be seen by running the test case in that report under
> > > > > gdb or strace.
> > > > > ---
> > > > >   winsup/cygwin/mmap.cc | 1 +
> > > > >   1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
> > > > >
> > > > > ```diff
> > > > > diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/mmap.cc b/winsup/cygwin/mmap.cc
> > > > > index feb9e5d0e..a08d00f83 100644
> > > > > --- a/winsup/cygwin/mmap.cc
> > > > > +++ b/winsup/cygwin/mmap.cc
> > > > > @@ -1144,6 +1144,7 @@ go_ahead:
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > >        ends in, but there's nothing at all we can do about that. */
> > > > >   #ifdef __x86_64__
> > > > >         len = roundup2 (len, wincap.allocation_granularity ());
> > > > > +      orig_len = roundup2 (orig_len, wincap.allocation_granularity ());
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Wouldn't it be simpler to just check for
> > > >
> > > > -      if (orig_len - len)
> > > > +      if (orig_len > len)
> > > >
> > > > in the code following this #if/#else/#endif snippet?
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think so, because we also want to use the rounded-up value
> > > of orig_len further down when we set sigbus_page_len
> >
> >
> > Actually we first modify orig_len in 'orig_len -= len;' and then use it
> > to set sigbus_page_len.  In any case, I think it needs to be rounded up
> > before being used.
>


Oh, right.  Now I see what you mean.  At this point orig_len is still
the actual exact size of the file.  We only can create the SIGBUS
pages starting the next allocation granularity, so, yeah, it makes
sense to align orig_size to allocation granularity here.

> If you agree, maybe I should modify the commit message to make this point clear.


Might make sense, yeah.

While looking into this, I found another bug.  The valid_page_len
is wrong on 32 bit systems as well.  That was supposed to be the
remainder of the allocation granularity sized block the file's EOF
is part of, but

  valid_page_len = orig_len % pagesize;

is the size of the file's map within that 64K block, not the size of the
remainder.  That should have been

  valid_page_len = pagesize - orig_len % pagesize;

so this didn't work correctly either.

Ultimately, I wonder if we really should keep all the 32 bit OS stuff
in.  The number of real 32 bit systems (not WOW64) is dwindling fast.
Keeping all the AT_ROUND_TO_PAGE stuff in just for what? 2%? of the
systems is really not worth it, I guess.

Feel free to apply this patch.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


