# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: mmap: fix mapping beyond EOF on 64 bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-07-20T14:29:31-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [c0269ad1-515e-dbf5-aae1-8d57b7ef39b2@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c0269ad1-515e-dbf5-aae1-8d57b7ef39b2@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-34-42.thread.md#:~:text=2020/07/20/20-29-31)

On 2020-07-20 09:41, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Ultimately, I wonder if we really should keep all the 32 bit OS stuff
> in.  The number of real 32 bit systems (not WOW64) is dwindling fast.
> Keeping all the AT_ROUND_TO_PAGE stuff in just for what? 2%? of the
> systems is really not worth it, I guess.


A lot of older/smaller laptops, especially low cost budget models for lower
income groups including students, seniors and for developing countries, Windows
(Surface, etc.) tablets, and VMs supporting legacy systems and applications, run
Windows 32 bit, and MS still sells W10 and supports 32 bit for that reason,
except in OEM channels going forward from the 2020-04 release[1].
About 40% of W7 systems sold were 32 bit, with about 25% of systems still
running W7, so 10% of systems could still be 32-bit.

If you don't want to ask and perhaps reconsider the impact of your approach,
maybe give folks a heads up on the mailing list that the current release will be
the last to support 32 bit Windows?

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in IEC units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]

[1] 2004 looks like it is 16 years old - delete software still using 2 digit
years for anything, as we will have many ambiguities until 2032!


