# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: mmap: fix mapping beyond EOF on 64 bit

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-07-20T17:14:07-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [eef0b033-2ecc-b803-e9b4-4c9c9d1812b6@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/eef0b033-2ecc-b803-e9b4-4c9c9d1812b6@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-34-42.thread.md#:~:text=2020/07/20/23-14-07)

On 2020-07-20 15:08, Ken Brown via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On 7/20/2020 4:29 PM, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2020-07-20 09:41, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Ultimately, I wonder if we really should keep all the 32 bit OS stuff
> > > in.  The number of real 32 bit systems (not WOW64) is dwindling fast.
> > > Keeping all the AT_ROUND_TO_PAGE stuff in just for what? 2%? of the
> > > systems is really not worth it, I guess.
> >
>
> [...]
> > If you don't want to ask and perhaps reconsider the impact of your approach,
> > maybe give folks a heads up on the mailing list that the current release will be
> > the last to support 32 bit Windows?
>
>
> Corinna didn't propose dropping support for 32 bit Windows.  She proposed
> dropping a feature that works *only* on 32 bit Windows.


Sorry if I misunderstood, but it sounded more drastic than that, and required
for the code to work compatibly on Windows 32 bit, rather than supporting a
different feature that only worked on Windows 32 bit, as anything
non-Linux/BSD/POSIX can be considered non-essential if support is not
widespread, nor essential for critical packages.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in IEC units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


