# Re: [PATCH] Introduce the 'usertemp' filesystem type

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2015-10-22T12:45:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20151022124547.GA5319@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20151022124547.GA5319@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/16/07-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2015/10/22/12-45-00)

On Oct 21 20:23, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Oct 20 13:47, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> > On Tue, 20 Oct 2015, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Sep 16 09:35, Johannes Schindelin wrote:
> >
> > [...]
> > > > +          char mb_tmp[len = sys_wcstombs (NULL, 0, tmp)];
> > >
> > >
> > > - len = sys_wcstombs() + 1
> >
> >
> > Whoops. I always get that wrong.
> >
> > But... actually... Did you know that `sys_wcstombs()` returns something
> > different than advertised? The documentation says:
> >
> > 	- dst == NULL; len is ignored, the return value is the number
> > 	  of bytes required for the string without the trailing NUL, just
> > 	  like the return value of the wcstombs function.
> >
> > But when I call
> >
> > 	small_printf("len of 1: %d\n", sys_wcstombs(NULL, 0, L"1"));
> >
> > it prints "len of 1: 2", i.e. the number of bytes requires for the string
> > *with* the trailing NUL, disagreeing with the comment in strfuncs.cc.
>
>
> Drat.  You're right.  As usual I wonder why nobody ever noticed this.
> As soon as the nwc parameter is larger than the number of non-0 wchars
> in the source string, sys_cp_wcstombs returns the length including the
> trailing NUL.
>
> And looking through the Cygwin sources the usage is rather erratic,
> sometimes with, sometimes without + 1 :(
>
> > How do you want to proceed from here? Should I fix sys_wcstombs() when the
> > fourth parameter is -1? Or is this not a fix, but I would rather break
> > things?
>
>
> No, this needs fixing, but it also would break things.  I have to take
> a stab at fixing this throughout Cygwin first.


I just pushed a patch to the git repo supposed to fix sys_cp_wcstombs
return value inconsistency.  It should now always return the length of
the string without the trailing NUL.  Please give it a try.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


