# Re: For masochists: the leap o faith

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <rbcollins@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-11-14T20:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3FB53BAE.3000803@cygwin.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3FB53BAE.3000803@cygwin.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/11/14/20-31-00)

Robert Collins wrote:

> Ok, so this it for tonight, my bed is calling me.
>
> If playing with this, be sure to:
> rebuild libc as well as cygwin1.dll.
> be setup to debug cygwin1.dll.
>
> I don't *think* I've changed the size of the shared stuff, but then 
> again, I'm pretty tired, so I'll believe anything right now.
>
> My plan is to unbreak cygwin tomorrow, and then work through the list of 
> potentially update-requiring API calls:


Turns out, that we still have a bug with gcc, where registeres are 
trashed when alloca is used to allocate large stack objects.

I posted a test case to the developers list when we where working on -O3 
support ?two? years back - it looks like the same issue.

So, I've dropped CYG_MAX_PATH to 512 in winsup.h, and that makes the dll 
usable. There is an issue with the win32 responses on loong files - but 
at least we can continue progressing.

So, Chris, are there any parts you've seen so far, that you've be happy 
to ok (i.e. the MAX_PATH->CYG_MAX_PATH rename), or the global search and 
replaces to the thunk functions?

As far as applications maing assumptions, unix file systems don't 
guarantee PATH_MAX: thats an upper limit of the OS, applications are 
expected to be able to handle to up to PATH_MAX... but can't expect the 
OS to do so in every case.

Now, for global use of an A or W function, Chris' utf patch which I just 
ran into digging into a INVALID_NAME error, also chose at runtime. I can 
easily alter IOThunkState to always use W if available, and then check a 
cached flag from then on in. I really think that the current overhead 
will be low enough to be a non-issue though.

Rob


