# Re: dtable.cc (build_fh_pc): serial port handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Ford <ford@vss.fsi.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-11-14T20:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.56.0311141425120.9584@eos](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.56.0311141425120.9584@eos) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/00-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/11/14/20-41-00)

On Thu, 13 Nov 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Wed, Nov 12, 2003 at 01:24:21PM -0600, Brian Ford wrote:
> > 2003-11-12  Brian Ford  <ford@vss.fsi.com>
> >
> > 	* dtable.cc (build_fh_pc): Use DEV_SERIAL_MAJOR to catch all
> > 	serial ports.  Remove redundant FH_CYGDRIVE case since it is
> > 	handled by DEV_CYGDRIVE_MAJOR.
> >
> > FYI, this is the reason I am here:
> >
> > http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin/2003-10/msg01750.html
> >
> > He offered to test my tcflush patch, but reported being unable to
> > open /dev/ttyS0 with the cvs compiled Cygwin.
>
>
> Reporting that this solved an actual bug would have been useful
> information in the patch.  I was holding off approving this until
> I had a chance to investigate and I'm extremely busy with real
> work this week.
>

Well, I'm busy too, so I understand.  The updated patch and comments were
not meant to push anything.  They should have been taken at face value;
just an update and some background info.

At the moment, I don't have any serial hardware myself to test this patch
with.  And, I haven't had Martin Farnik try it yet either.

However, it certainly looked like an obvious and logical bug fix.  So, I
submitted it for further review after minimal testing.  I did check the
situation out before and after in the debugger.  It looked like a problem
before, and it looked ok after, but that was as far as I went.

Since I'm new here, and even things that look obviously wrong to me are
not always incorrect, I appreciate and am content to wait for a "full"
review.  Even in my regular job, I can often be faulted for checking in an
"obvious" fix/change.  Sometimes, without even compiling it.  I know, I
know, I've got to stop that.

> So, approved and applied.
>

Anyway, thanks.

-- 
Brian Ford
Senior Realtime Software Engineer
VITAL - Visual Simulation Systems
FlightSafety International
Phone: 314-551-8460
Fax:   314-551-8444


