# Re: Signal handling tune up.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-29T00:54:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030828205339.0081f920@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030828205339.0081f920@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-18-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/29/00-54-00)

At 02:09 PM 8/20/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> On Wed, Aug 20, 2003 at 01:48:50PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > If you do something like:
> > > >
> > > > foo()
> > > > {
> > > > ```
> > > >   sigframe thisframe;
> > > >   sig_dispatch_pending ();
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > }
> > > >
> > > > then the signal dispatch will happen when foo returns, not when
> > > > sig_dispatch_pending returns.  The goal is that, in most cases, the
> > > > function closest to the user should be the one that gets "interrupted".
> > >
> > >
> > > Well, that is what I thought the goal was, but looking at the sigframe
> > > code again it doesn't work that way.  If it did work that way then the
> > > current call to call_signal_handler_now in sigreturn wouldn't be
> > > necessary, although the stack pressue would be even greater.
> > >
> > > So, I don't know why I put that explicit call in that function.  It's
> > > probably superfluous, as you suspect.
> >
> >
> > After sleeping over this I have a new hypothesis, kind of just the
> > opposite of what we were thinking above.
> >
> > interrupt_on_return will walk the stack and find an "interruptible"
> > address in the user code (outside of cygwin).  The handler starts when
> > returning from that frame (closest to the user).
> >
> > sigframe::call_signal_handler () undoes that and forces an immediate
> > run of the handler.  So it makes sense to use it in
> > sig_dispatch_pending ().
>
>
> Except that since sig_dispatch_pending may not be the "owner" of the
> frame info, it will not call anything in some (most) cases.  I saw this
> in a debugging session last night.


For the benefit of future maintainers I went back to this and figured
it out. sigframe::call_signal_handler () will do its job iff there is
no earlier sigframe (thus not from set_process_mask). That's why in 
e.g. syscalls.cc and net.cc the following order is always respected:
```
  1) sig_dispatch_pending ();
  2) sigframe thisframe;

```

I was planning to also eventually propose patches for the  following,
but it's more efficient to tell Chris while he is working on the code
and before I forget:
1) sigcatch_nosync could be an event instead of a semaphore. This 
```
   doesn't affect the logic and will cut down useless loops, mainly
   at high load with pending_signals set.
```

2) When a signal is pending but blocked, pending_signals is set and
```
   sig_dispatch_pending() signals the sigthread. It would be more 
   efficient to have a pending_signal_mask and to do mask comparison
   in sig_dispatch_pending(). It's just a courtesy call, no interlock
   is necessary.

```

Pierre


