# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Map ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE and ERROR_MEDIA_CHANGED to ENODEV

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-02-26T12:14:15+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [d22da40f-ea54-096a-75ea-28a236125cf4@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d22da40f-ea54-096a-75ea-28a236125cf4@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/18-14-02.thread.md#:~:text=2024/02/26/11-14-15)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 25 10:12, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > So the default was EPERM at first and has been changed to EACCES
> > > because it "is better for the unknown error case".
> > >
> > > I'm open to ideas for an improved error mapping.
> >
> > I have no better suggestion for a default errno. Adding a cygwin specific
> > one (like ENMFILE, ENOSHARE and ECASECLASH added 2000-2001) is possibly not
> > desired.
>
> ENOSHARE and ECASECLASH are not used anymore, fortunately, and ENMFILE
> is hopefully never returned to userspace.  It might be a good idea to
> remove it from Cygwin's code as well.
>
> > Some thoughts about minor improvements of the errmap.h file:
> > - Add error number to each /* ERROR_... */ comment, e.g. /* 2:
> > ERROR_FILE_NOT_FOUND */.
>
> Ok.
>
> > - Update /* NUMBER */ comments using current MinGW-w64's winerror.h (~850
> > changes).
>
> Why so many?  I used winerror.h to populate the list not too long ago,
> so I wonder why it suddenly has so many more error codes?


"Required for mozilla-central." - 850 insertions:
https://sourceforge.net/p/mingw-w64/mingw-w64/ci/ddeb05a

Most or all would possible never occur with the NTDLL/Win32 API subset 
used by Cygwin.

Includes interesting codes like "ERROR_NO_WORK_DONE" :-)


> > - Max errno is 143, so data type size could be reduced from int to uint8_t
> > aka unsigned char. Could even add a compile time check by using C++11's
> > braced initializers which do not allow narrowing conversions.
>
> Yeah, we could do that.
>
> > - Remove trailing entries which only map to 0.
> > - Append a static_assert which checks whether array size matches the last
> > mapped error number.
>
> Yeah, not so sure about that.  I'm aware that we only map errors
> below 3000 somewhere, but it's no safe bet that it stays that way.
>
> For instance, we handle NT status codes STATUS_TRANSACTIONAL_CONFLICT
> and STATUS_TRANSACTION_NOT_ENLISTED and those translate into the TxF
> error range between 6800 and 6899.  We don't convert those to userspace
> errno yet, but consider having to add them at one point and thus having
> to add the 3000 entries from the last used one up the newly used one.
>
> The reason to keep them is to allow us to be lazy about it.  The list
> also just takes ~36K, and with the change to uint8_t it only takes
> 9K, so what?


Ok.

> > I could provide separate patches if desired.
>
> Always welcome!


Ok.

Thanks,
Christian



