# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: cpuid: add AArch64 build stubs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | Cygwin core component patch submission and discussion <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-05-30T10:03:17-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f3d9fd85-7055-436e-b78f-12a925320043@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f3d9fd85-7055-436e-b78f-12a925320043@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/10-45-31.thread.md#:~:text=2026/05/30/16-03-17)

On 2026-05-28 06:33, Jon Turney wrote:
> On 07/05/2026 11:45, Chandru Kumaresan wrote:
> > Hi Corinna,
> >
> > This patch adds ARM64 support for CPU information and cache detection used 
> > by /proc/cpuinfo and sysconf cache queries.
> > Thanks & regards,
> > K Chandru
> > In-lined patch:
> >
> > ---
> >   winsup/cygwin/fhandler/proc.cc       | 242 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++
> >   winsup/cygwin/local_includes/cpuid.h |  21 ++-
> >   winsup/cygwin/sysconf.cc             | 148 ++++++++++++++++
> >   3 files changed, 408 insertions(+), 3 deletions(-)
>
>
> Thanks.
>
> I don't have any substantive comments (apart from "oh, you're supposed to grovel 
> over a registry key to get the cpu information, nice :(").
>
> Brian,
>
> I think you're much more familiar with this area of the code than me. Please 
> chime in if you have any comments!


Thanks Jon,

Never received the original patches in my email, so imported all from p-i, and 
will have a look soon, comparing against x86_64 and Linux-next x86 and arm64 
cpufeature enumeration and cpuinfo output.

It would be easier if MS Windows also exposed elevated CPU and MSR info to 
regular user space.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retrancher  but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry



