# Re: [PATCH] Re: Cygwin select() issues and improvements

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-03-17T16:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [56EADD32.4010802@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/56EADD32.4010802@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/14/08-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/03/17/16-37-00)

On 03/17/2016 03:29 AM, John Hood wrote:
> On 3/14/2016 6:12 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi John,
> >
> > On Mar 13 17:37, john hood wrote:
> > > On 3/4/16 3:58 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > John,
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Ping?  I'd be interested to get your patches into Cygwin.  select
> > > > really needs some kicking :)
> > >
> > > Sorry to be so slow responding.  Here's a rebased, squashed,
> > > changelog-ified patch,
> >
> > Thank you.  Uhm... I just don't understand why you squashed them into a
> > single big patch.  Multiple independent smaller patches are better to
> > handle, especially when looking for potential bugs later.
> >
> > Would you mind terribly to split them again?
>
> i just looked at this, but I'm going to leave the patch as a single
> patch.  The patches in the original series are not completely
> independent of each other, it has a bug or two in the middle, and also
> some reversed edits.  The endpoint is known tested and working, but some
> of the intermediate commits aren't that well tested.  It *is* too big as
> a single commit-- but I think that's better than the original patch
> series from my development work, which I never intended to submit as-is
> anyway.


But that's where 'git rebase' is your friend. Just because your original
series wasn't perfect doesn't mean you can avoid cleaning things up and
posting an improved version.  The goal of patch submissions is to make
the reviewer's job easier, even if it makes it longer for you to post
the perfect patch series.

-- 
Eric Blake   eblake redhat com    +1-919-301-3266
Libvirt virtualization library http://libvirt.org



---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
