# Re: [PATCH] CPU-time clocks

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2011-05-17T10:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20110517101909.GA28443@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20110517101909.GA28443@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/18-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2011/05/17/10-19-00)

On May 17 04:10, Yaakov (Cygwin/X) wrote:
> On Tue, 2011-05-17 at 07:58 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Thank you.  You can apply it, but while I was looking into it,
> > this occured to me:
> >
> > This conversion arithmetic from FILETIME to long long happens a lot
> > in times.cc, even though it's absolutely not necessary.
> >
> > The FILETIME struct is actually a LARGE_INTEGER in which just the
> > QuadPart member is missing, unfortunately.  What we can do is to
> > replace the bit shifting stuff with a simple cast:
> >
> > ```
> >   x = ((PLARGE_INTEGER) &kernel_time)->QuadPart
> >       + ((PLARGE_INTEGER) &user_time)->QuadPart;
> > ```
> >
>
>
> The MSDN docs on FILETIME[1] state:
>
> > Do not cast a pointer to a FILETIME structure to either a ULARGE_INTEGER*
> > or __int64* value because it can cause alignment faults on 64-bit Windows.
>
>
> As I am by no means an expert on Win32 programming, I take that at face
> value.


I don't think that has anything to do with Win32, it's a potential CPU
problem.  Why this should be the case beats me, though.  Maybe 8 byte
values are supposed to be 8 byte aligned on x86_64.  However, in 32 bit
mode it's definitely no problem.  I tested it:

```
  FILETIME x;
  printf ("&x = %p\n", &x);
  ((LARGE_INTEGER *) &x)->QuadPart = 0x123456789abcdefLL;
  printf ("x = %llx\n", ((LARGE_INTEGER *) &x)->QuadPart);

  ==>

  &x = 0x28ccb4
  x = 123456789abcdef

```

If that would have been a problem, we should see a core dump.

> > Alternatively we can define kernel_time etc as LARGE_INTEGER and cast in
> > the call to GetProcessTimes or just call NtQueryInformationProcess.
>
>
> I have chosen the latter.  Revised patch attached.


Thanks, please apply.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


