# Re: [PATCH] Initialize IO_STATUS_BLOCK for pread, pwrite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-12-01T09:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20171201093754.GB25276@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20171201093754.GB25276@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/28/07-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/12/01/09-37-00)

On Dec  1 10:30, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Dec  1 00:44, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > [...]
> > I'd better take this info back to "the lab" and do some more digging. Thanks
> > very much for these details and your earlier replies.  When I saw
> > FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT in your reply, I remembered that I'm not using
> > a Cygwin-supplied handle but rather a handle returned by Win32 CreateFile().
> > Not only that, but using cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd() to get an fd to work
> > with.
>
>
> Ouch.
>
> > And then pwrite() creates its own handle (or reuses one (!)) to avoid
> > messing up the seek pointer of the fd passed in.
>
>
> Wait.  Not "re-use", but "re-open".  If you're more familiar with POSIX
> terms, this is along the lines of the fdopen(3) call, just on the NT
> API level.  There's an equivalent Win32 function since Windows 2003
> called ReOpenFile.
>
> In terms of pread/pwrite, the new handle shares the same settings with
> the original handle.  However, if you use cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd,
> there's a chance information got lost.  Nobody actually uses this call ;)
>
> In terms of FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT, this is stored in
> fhandler_base::options, utilizing the get_options/set_options methods.
> I have a hunch that cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd fails to call set_options,
> thus options is 0 when you call pwrite, thus the new handle is opened
> without FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT and all the other option flags
> we use by default.


It's more than a hunch.  Of course the info gets lost since 
none of the functions called by cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd calls
NtQueryInformationFile(FileModeInformation) to fetch the options.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
