# Re: [PATCH] Initialize IO_STATUS_BLOCK for pread, pwrite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-12-01T21:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.BSF.4.63.1712011340460.18120@m0.truegem.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.BSF.4.63.1712011340460.18120@m0.truegem.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/28/07-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/12/01/21-46-00)

On Fri, 1 Dec 2017, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Dec  1 10:30, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec  1 00:44, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > [...]
> > > I'd better take this info back to "the lab" and do some more digging. Thanks
> > > very much for these details and your earlier replies.  When I saw
> > > FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT in your reply, I remembered that I'm not using
> > > a Cygwin-supplied handle but rather a handle returned by Win32 CreateFile().
> > > Not only that, but using cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd() to get an fd to work
> > > with.
> >
> >
> > Ouch.
> >
> > > And then pwrite() creates its own handle (or reuses one (!)) to avoid
> > > messing up the seek pointer of the fd passed in.
> >
> >
> > Wait.  Not "re-use", but "re-open".  If you're more familiar with POSIX
> > terms, this is along the lines of the fdopen(3) call, just on the NT
> > API level.  There's an equivalent Win32 function since Windows 2003
> > called ReOpenFile.
> >
> > In terms of pread/pwrite, the new handle shares the same settings with
> > the original handle.  However, if you use cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd,
> > there's a chance information got lost.  Nobody actually uses this call ;)
> >
> > In terms of FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT, this is stored in
> > fhandler_base::options, utilizing the get_options/set_options methods.
> > I have a hunch that cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd fails to call set_options,
> > thus options is 0 when you call pwrite, thus the new handle is opened
> > without FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT and all the other option flags
> > we use by default.
>
>
> It's more than a hunch.  Of course the info gets lost since
> none of the functions called by cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd calls
> NtQueryInformationFile(FileModeInformation) to fetch the options.


Bang.  There it is.  Let me fix the offending program to just use 
Cygwin-supplied handles and make sure this bug of mine is squashed.  I'll 
report back but it might be a few days.

I'm open to using overlapped I/O for the usual read & write cases of aio 
but there are some extensions I have in mind that don't allow for 
overlapped so I think I need to have threads handle them.  I might combine 
the two.  Using overlapped for the common case would, I think, allow me to 
reduce the number of worker threads hanging around.  Thanks for the input!

..mark


