# Re: init_cheap and _csbrk

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-08-06T15:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [013b01c23d99$a180f930$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/013b01c23d99$a180f930$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](11-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/08/06/15-33-00)

"Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
> On Tue, Aug 06, 2002 at 07:08:21PM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> I've checked in a modified version of this.  I actually wanted

to
> allocate some slop for the cygheap but the pagetrunc made sure

that
> I actually didn't do that.  So, I've changed things so that an

extra
> couple of pages are allocated.  It would be nice to find out

what the
> minimal amount of memory used during a small program would be

and
> just allocate that at the start to minimize calls to

VirtualAlloc.

I wasn't thinking of efficiency while I was looking at this.  I
was actually trying to understand an apparent memory leak on fork.
(I found that BTW: it's the "well-known" one in the per_thread
mechanism.  So I've stopped worrying about it.)

But: the slop will never get used AFAICT (so it's not really
slop).  That is, this padding just pushes the cygheap_max pointer
further up; all subsequent calls to _csbrk will allocate past that
point, and so the slop will remain unused.  So if you want the
slop to be allocated in future, you'll need to drag cygheap_max
back down to (char *) (cygheap + 1) + sbs --- ooh! that looks
familiar --- after the recursive call.  Unless I'm missing the
obvious of course.

> Also my aesthetic sense differs from yours so I didn't apply

that part.

That's the beauty of aesthetics :-)

Thanks,

// Conrad




