# Re: SSH -R problem

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-04-29T18:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20020429205809.007f2920@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20020429205809.007f2920@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-02-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/04/29/18-02-00)

In the thread
http://sources.redhat.com/ml/cygwin/2002-04/msg00515.html
Steve Chew, Chris and Corinna discuss a listen()
problem with ssh -R. Here is the explanation.

1) In Windows, a connect() always creates a listen socket
with the same port number as the connect socket.
That's easy to verify, e.g. with Windows telnet.
Note that the listen socket address is 0.0.0.0:ThePort 
To the contrary the Cygwin select() call creates a 
listening socket 127.0.0.1:yyy where yyy is arbitrary.

2) The reason the sockets persist is that they are 
non-blocking. On Win95/98/ME close() doesn't work 
correctly for non-blocking sockets, as reported in
http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q2/msg00095.html 

The patch in fhandler_socket::close() would be something like:
/* HACK */
If the socket is non blocking
```
  then make it blocking 
       set linger to Off 
         (which will make close() non-blocking, as desired)
  else set linger to On, as done currently
```

The WSAEWOULDBLOCK stuff could go away.

I don't have the time to test and submit a real patch for the 
moment, perhaps Steve could help.
My rough test code basically adds
```
 int request = 0;
 ioctl (FIONBIO, &request);
 linger.l_onoff = 0; 
```

I have made > 500 calls into a connection created by ssh -R 
from WinME to WinME and > 100 calls into ssh -L from a client 
on WinME to a server on Win98. 

Of course we are then exposed to the issue that Cygwin was trying
to fix by setting linger to On, i.e. the case of a process 
exiting just after the close(). Fortunately sockets are usually 
non blocking in situations where there is some kind of persistent 
daemon handling several connections (or so I hope, otherwise ???).

Also in
http://cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-patches/2002-q2/msg00095.html 
I was speculating that my proposed patch to sshd would not take
care of the CLOSE_WAIT bug for ssh -R or -L.
This was unduly pessimistic. The bug does not occur in these
cases because no subprocess is forked.

Pierre


