# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Make gcc-specific code in <sys/cpuset.h> compiler-agnostic

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-07-07T03:13:40-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [465f8863-6559-e061-684a-a2a812e9c4c6@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/465f8863-6559-e061-684a-a2a812e9c4c6@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-41-21.thread.md#:~:text=2023/07/07/10-13-40)

Hi Corinna,

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Jul  7 00:41, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > The current version of <sys/cpuset.h> cannot be compiled by Clang due to
> > the use of __builtin* functions.  Their presence here was a dubious
> > optimization anyway, so their usage has been converted to standard
> > library functions.  A popcnt (population count of 1 bits in a word)
> > function is provided here because there isn't one in the standard library
> > or elsewhere in the Cygwin DLL.
>
>
> And clang really doesn't provide it?  That's unfortunate.
>
> Do you really think it's not worth to use it if it's available?


I don't know for sure.  I'd guess the popcnt op should be optimized if available; 
the others probably don't need it.

> You could workaround it like this:
>
> > ```
> > +/* Modern CPUs have popcnt* instructions but the need here is not worth
> > + * worrying about builtins or inline assembler for different compilers. */
> > +static inline int
> > +__maskpopcnt (__cpu_mask mask)
> > ```
> >
> > +{
>
> #if (__GNUC__ >= 4)
>       return __builtin_popcountl (mask);
> #else
> > ```
> > +  int res = 0;
> > +  unsigned long ulmask = (unsigned long) mask;
> > +
> > +  while (ulmask != 0)
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > +    {
> > +      if (ulmask & 1)
> > +        ++res;
> > +      ulmask >>= 1;
> > ```
> >
> > ```
> > +    }
> > +  return res;
> > ```
> >
>
> #endif
> > ```
> > +}
> > +
> > ```
> >
>


The first version of the patch (unsubmitted) worked something like that, though it 
was a chore figuring out how to tell the difference between gcc and clang.  clang 
#defines __GNUC__ (?!) for example.  I ended up using __GNUC_PREREQ__ with the 
hope clang version numbers stay lower than gcc version numbers.  Has to be a 
better way than that.

On the other hand, one compilation with clang or clang++, I forget which, and with 
some optimization flag, recognized the 'while' loop in that function and turned it 
into the Hackers Delight algorithm for popcnt in ~20 instructions and no loop.

TL;DR let me ponder this over the weekend.
Thanks for listening,

..mark



