# Re: [PATCH] minor pthread fixes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-05T08:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020605150207.GE15167@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020605150207.GE15167@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-42-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/05/08-01-00)

On Wed, Jun 05, 2002 at 11:12:53PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
>
>
> > -----Original Message-----
> > From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com 
> > [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Corinna Vinschen
> > Sent: Wednesday, 5 June 2002 11:09 PM
> > To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> > Subject: Re: [PATCH] minor pthread fixes
> >
> >
> > On Wed, Jun 05, 2002 at 10:44:54PM +1000, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > Ok, Chris, whats the guideline in nuber-of-line before we need an
> > > assignment? Do I need to back out this patch (it's very few 
> >
> > lines, just
> > > spread over a few functions).
> >
> >
> > I'm not Chris, sorry
>
>
> That's ok, you being a RedHat employee and all :}.
>
> > , but the answer is basically something below
> > 10 changed lines is treated as "nonsignificant".  There's no hard
> > rule, though.  Basically, if a change is not only fixing a bug but
> > introduces new functionality, it's a "significant" patch, even if
> > it's changing less than 10 lines.
>
>
> Hmm. I'll look carefully at the remaining patches to see if there is new
> functionality or just bugfixes. The current one should be fine though
> IMO.


It sounds like it is ok.  I trust your judgement, on this, Robert.

I'm willing to put the patch in the sources on a promise of an assignment
being forthcoming, too.  I just won't pull the sources into our internal
repository until I get the assignment.

If Thomas wants to send me, via private email, a scanned, signed copy of
the assignment form that would be great, too.

cgf


