# ssp.c patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-05T10:05:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.44.0206051202550.664-200000@iocc.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.44.0206051202550.664-200000@iocc.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-05-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/05/10-05-00)

This patch changes ssp to use getopt instead of just hand-rolled
option handling. There were two issues with doing this:

The -dll option ( -d -l -l to getopt) is now -l. So if someone was using
a script that did ssp -d -dll 0x401000 0x403000 hello.exe it will work
identically, but without the -d option it will behave differently.

The -tc, which getopt interprets as -t -c, is now just -c. The -t option
stayed the same, so the same issues as above apply.

I also included the whole of ssp.txt in the --help output, since that
text file really isn't that long and it doesn't make sense to me that
users need to download the cygwin source to learn to use a util. Hopefully
soon this info can be moved into userland documentation.

I considered submitting separate patches for this but it wouldn't make
sense to do the getopt change without updating the help output, and the
--version part is only a few lines. I could leave the --version part out
but this made more sense to me.

P.S. I also found two variable-name typos in the run_program (char * cmdline)
function and fixed it.

ChangeLog:

2002-06-03  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>

	* ssp.c (version): New global variable.
	(longopts): Ditto.
	(opts): Ditto.
	(run_program): Correct cmd_line typos to cmdline.
	(usage): New function. Standardize usage output.
	Add ssp.txt to --help output.
	(print_version): New function.
	(main): Accomodate getopt.



---

**Attachments:**

- [ssp.c-patch](ssp.c-patch) (text)
