# Re: Patch for sub-second resolution in stat(2)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-05T17:34:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020606003415.GC15072@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020606003415.GC15072@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/05/17-34-00)

On Thu, Jun 06, 2002 at 01:28:08AM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> After Chris's exciting news that my assignment has reached RedHat, here's a
> patch!
>
> This adds sub-second resolution to the access, modification, and creation
> times returned by stat(2) etc. I thought this would make a nice companion to
> Corinna's work on making other things in stat(2) be 64-bit.
>
> Also, I was having trouble with a makefile where the commands could execute
> in less than a second leading to irregular breakage: this patch fixes that.
>
> I've checked that this maintains both source and binary compatibility (tho'
> it does add macros for st_mtime etc. to hide the indirection involved).


Nice.

> I'm unclear whether this is the best naming / type scheme but it is one
> recognised by both the make and fileutils packages available from the cygwin
> setup (i.e. make this patch and re-compile those packages and they detect
> the new fields).


As long as there's precedent...  Is this how linux does it too?

> I've provided two separate patches: one for types.h (in the newlib.patch)
> and one for the cygwin sources (in winsup.patch). The changelog entries are:
>
> newlib:
>
> Changelog message:
> * types.h (timespec_t timestruc_t): New typedefs.


newlib patches should be sent to the newlib mailing list.

> winsup/cygwin:
>
> Changelog message:
> ```
> * fhandler.cc (fhandler_base::fstat):
> * fhandler_disk_file.cc (fhandler_disk_file::fstat_helper):
> * fhandler_process.cc (*fhandler_process::fstat)
> * glob.c (stat32_to_STAT):
> ```
>


I see from your next message that you're probably sending a better
ChangeLog.  :-)

I'll let Corinna comment on the patch itself.  It looks good to me, but
she's been modifying this code a lot lately so she has a better feel for
it.

cgf


