# Re: Patch for sub-second resolution in stat(2)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-05T18:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [021101c20cf8$6b033430$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/021101c20cf8$6b033430$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/05/18-19-00)

"Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
> > I'm unclear whether this is the best naming / type scheme but it is one
> > recognised by both the make and fileutils packages available from the
> > cygwin setup (i.e. make this patch and re-compile those packages and they
> > detect the new fields).
>
>
> As long as there's precedent...  Is this how linux does it too?


This does seem to be the way that several vendors do it: it's labelled "the
usual case" in the make and fileutils configure files (as opposed to Solaris
2.6 and Unixware 2.1.2) and I found several man pages on the web that
matched this naming / typing scheme.

Strangely, Linux doesn't seem to support sub-second timing (at least, not as
of 2.5.13, which is all I have to hand right now).


> newlib patches should be sent to the newlib mailing list.


On its way.

> I see from your next message that you're probably sending a better
> ChangeLog.  :-)


Well, it's longer :-) and I hope it's better.


While I'm writing, just a note that there is a proviso in the second
(slightly more considered) version of the email about an issue of rounding
up of the times for FAT that I also missed out from the first.

> I'll let Corinna comment on the patch itself.  It looks good to me, but
> she's been modifying this code a lot lately so she has a better feel for
> it.


Thanks Chris.

// Conrad




