# Re: Make CW_STRACE_TOGGLE toggle

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-05T18:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [025201c20cfd$b5bf5670$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/025201c20cfd$b5bf5670$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/05/18-57-00)

"Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
> On Thu, Jun 06, 2002 at 02:07:57AM +0100, Conrad Scott wrote:
> > Currently calls to:
> >
> >    cygwin_internal (CW_STRACE_TOGGLE, pid)
> >
> > doesn't toggle the stracing of pid but simply turns it on again, i.e. a
> > no-op after the first call.
>
>
> Did you look at strace::hello?  This is supposed to toggle but, since
> the "inited" field in the strace class is never set, it never toggles.


I saw that code at the start of strace::hello but I hadn't stopped to work
out what was meant to be happening there (except that something seemed to be
adrift). Now you mention it, it is pretty obvious :-) And your patch is much
the better.

> > I've got a small program that makes this call for a given process, so you
> > can turn stracing on and off around events of interest etc. I'll send it
> > along once I've thought of a good name for it (strtoggle? stroggle?
> > stronoff? . . . ) Any suggestions?
>
>
> I don't understand what this program does.  Are you saying that you run

this
> other program while stracing a running program?



Yes: you call this other program (or, strace with some relevant option) to
toggle tracing in a program that's being straced at the time.

> I've never had a real use for this myself, but it sounds like this is an
> strace option, not another program.


I've been using this with XEmacs so that I can get strace output just for
some particular action. The strace log is so huge otherwise I can never find
the output that corresponds to what I was trying to test.

If this was to be another option to strace.exe, it would save the effort of
thinking up a name for a new program :-)

Anyhow, I can send a patch to do just that but it'll have to be tomorrow.

Good night for now.

// Conrad




