# Re: resolver //Was: [PATCH 3/7] Debug output to show both IP and port # in native b.o., a few little cosmetic improvements for consistency

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2022-01-18T11:50:17+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [YeabaaciPOzsMUBp@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/YeabaaciPOzsMUBp@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/18-29-01.thread.md#:~:text=2022/01/18/10-50-17)

Hi Anton,

On Jan 17 18:29, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> > Other than that, the remaining patches look good, except, adding a short
> > description what patch 7 does to the commit message would be great for
> > later readers of the git log.
>
>
> I resubmitted the patches with a little improvement and a better description
> to the #7 (now #5) as requested.


Thanks!

> While doing the code review afresh in there, I noticed a few more problems:
>
> 1.
> minires-os-if.c on line 262 does this:
> ```
>     262         ptr = NULL;
>     263         break;
>
> ```
>
> and then a bit later this:
>     290   len = ptr - AnsPtr;
>
> which makes the return value "len" to be a total nonsense (I think it
> should return -1 in this case, but it's debatable).


I don't think it's actually debatable.  The statp->os_query call should
return the same kind of reply as the calling res_nsend/res_nquery.  The
return values of this function calls are used unfiltered.  Therefore
the above snippet needs fixing and, along the same lines, it should
set statp->res_h_errno to a useful value.

> 2.
> Also, "ptr" in the cygwin_query() function is not checked for buffer
> overrun in the "done:" section of the code (after line 291), which is
> not good IMO.


ACK

> 3.
> Lastly, at other places where "ptr" is checked for overrun (notably,
> in write_record()), it can leave garbage in the unfilled portion of
> the answer buffer (because it still advances "ptr" properly, to
> calculate the final "would-be" size of the response): so if the return
> value is greater than the passed "AnsLength", the user cannot assume
> that at least all AnsLength bytes were filled correctly.  They cannot
> actually assume any "boundary" where the "Ans" buffer was actually
> stopped being updated.
>
> Maybe "Ans" should be cleared upon entry?... But that would mean
> double-write of the buffer in most of the use-cases (where no overflow
> actually occurs because of an adequate size of the buffer).


Either that or fill the reminder of the buffer with 0-bytes.  Clearing
upon entry is a simpe and good choice, IMHO.  Yeah, it might take
a tiny little bit longer, but it's a safe choice.

Thanks for looking into this!
Corinna


