# RE: [EXTERNAL] Re: [PATCH 2/5] Cygwin: resolver: Process options forward (not backwards)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] <lavr@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2022-01-18T13:58:24Z |
| **Message-ID** | [DM8PR09MB70957B6BFEAE91059D1371A6A5589@DM8PR09MB7095.namprd09.prod.outlook.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/DM8PR09MB70957B6BFEAE91059D1371A6A5589@DM8PR09MB7095.namprd09.prod.outlook.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../17/18-03-09.thread.md#:~:text=2022/01/18/13-58-24)

> I pushed patches 1 and 3 to 5.  I fixed the consitency typo
> throughout.


Thanks!  (and oops :-)

> Right now, the debug flag gets set in several places throughout the
> code.  Given you set the debug flag above, doesn't that mean several
> code snippets setting the debug flag later in the code can go away?


No, they can't.  The flag can be propagated from "res_init()" from the user
land.  When /etc/resolv.conf gets loaded, its "options" can also specify the
debug setting (so it should become active since then), but formerly the code was
using only the init-provided value in "get_resolv()" yet the debug setting from
"options" (parsed by "get_options()") only affected the options themselves,
but not the calling code in "get_resolv()", which kept on using the initial value.
That made the remainder of the file parse to continue "silent" unless "res_init()"
was previously called with RES_DEBUG.

So that was, again, inconsistent! (see, I can spell it this time around :-)

Post-"get_options()" assignment is not an additional assignment, it's a refresh
of a possibly changed value (for a local "debug" variable).  I think the patch is correct,
and it works, for what I am concerned, -- I checked that and was using it.

Anton Lavrentiev
Contractor NIH/NLM/NCBI



