# RE: Problem with winsup/cinstall compilation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ralf Habacker <Ralf.Habacker@freenet.de> |
| **To** | Cygwin-Patches <cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-14T13:25:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [010201c19d41$b198c9e0$fe6207d5@BRAMSCHE](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/010201c19d41$b198c9e0$fe6207d5@BRAMSCHE) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/14/13-25-00)

> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com
> [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com]On Behalf Of Robert Collins
> Sent: Monday, January 14, 2002 9:32 AM
> To: Ralf Habacker; cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: Re: Problem with winsup/cinstall compilation
>
>
>
> ===
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Ralf Habacker" <Ralf.Habacker@freenet.de>
> >
> > I have found about 400 several changelog entrys lines in the whole
>
> cygwin src tree (including
> > winsup) with this error.
> > Relating to the total number of entries (1146) this means that over
>
> 30% of all changelog
> > entries are not conform with the style guide you've told about.
>
>
> I hope you'll find my ones acceptable!.
>
> Seriously, the guidelines are guidelines. Being 100% correct isn't the
> issue - it just happened that your particular changelog was visibly
> incorrect. Dont' worry - I'm equally pedantic with most other
> contributors. I don't _like_ being so because it raises the barrier to
> contribution.
>
> However, as your patch was for w32api which I am not a regular committer
> to, I had a responsibility to Danny Smith and the other w32api folk to
> 'keep the standard up'.
>

I think you have done the right thing. You have taken the job and told about that there is an
error and that can't go in this way in future. Than I have send some note, how to make it
easier for you and other maintainers, because someone who is not involved in things has
another sight and this may help to make things easier especially for newbies like me. And
this help to avoid errors, because there so many information, which has to be keep in mind,
so that any reduction make contributing easier. :-)

Ralf


