# Re: [PATCH] Initialize IO_STATUS_BLOCK for pread, pwrite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-12-02T10:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20171202104609.GC4325@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20171202104609.GC4325@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/28/07-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/12/02/10-46-00)

On Dec  1 13:46, Mark Geisert wrote:
> On Fri, 1 Dec 2017, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Dec  1 10:30, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > In terms of pread/pwrite, the new handle shares the same settings with
> > > the original handle.  However, if you use cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd,
> > > there's a chance information got lost.  Nobody actually uses this call ;)
> > >
> > > In terms of FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT, this is stored in
> > > fhandler_base::options, utilizing the get_options/set_options methods.
> > > I have a hunch that cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd fails to call set_options,
> > > thus options is 0 when you call pwrite, thus the new handle is opened
> > > without FILE_SYNCHRONOUS_IO_NONALERT and all the other option flags
> > > we use by default.
> >
> >
> > It's more than a hunch.  Of course the info gets lost since
> > none of the functions called by cygwin_attach_handle_to_fd calls
> > NtQueryInformationFile(FileModeInformation) to fetch the options.
>
>
> Bang.  There it is.  Let me fix the offending program to just use
> Cygwin-supplied handles and make sure this bug of mine is squashed.  I'll
> report back but it might be a few days.
>
> I'm open to using overlapped I/O for the usual read & write cases of aio but
> there are some extensions I have in mind that don't allow for overlapped so
> I think I need to have threads handle them.  I might combine the two.


I'm just a bit concerned in terms of calling lots of aio_read/write at
the same time or lio_listio with lots of entries.  One thread for each
entry?

> Using
> overlapped for the common case would, I think, allow me to reduce the number
> of worker threads hanging around.  Thanks for the input!


I wonder if APCs are the way to go for this use case.  As you might
know, Nt{Read,Write}File provide a way to specify an APC routine and a
APC context pointer (struct aiocb *?), so instead of waiting actively
for the event, you could just lean back and wait for the APC routine to
be called.

As a sidenote, I think we could use APCs in other scenarios, too, but
somehow we never got around to it.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
