# Re: [PATCH] Initialize IO_STATUS_BLOCK for pread, pwrite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-12-02T22:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.BSF.4.63.1712021418210.91733@m0.truegem.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.BSF.4.63.1712021418210.91733@m0.truegem.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/28/07-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/12/02/22-32-00)

On Sat, 2 Dec 2017, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Dec  1 13:46, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > I'm open to using overlapped I/O for the usual read & write cases of aio but
> > there are some extensions I have in mind that don't allow for overlapped so
> > I think I need to have threads handle them.  I might combine the two.
>
>
> I'm just a bit concerned in terms of calling lots of aio_read/write at
> the same time or lio_listio with lots of entries.  One thread for each
> entry?


No, first use of aio_* or lio_* causes a pool of AIO_MAX worker threads to 
be created.  The actual request(s) is/are placed on a FIFO queue.  Each 
enqueue bumps a semaphore to wake up a worker thread to dequeue and 
process a request.  More requests than threads?  It's OK, requests are
queued until there's a worker thread available to field it.

> > Using
> > overlapped for the common case would, I think, allow me to reduce the number
> > of worker threads hanging around.  Thanks for the input!
>
>
> I wonder if APCs are the way to go for this use case.  As you might
> know, Nt{Read,Write}File provide a way to specify an APC routine and a
> APC context pointer (struct aiocb *?), so instead of waiting actively
> for the event, you could just lean back and wait for the APC routine to
> be called.
>
> As a sidenote, I think we could use APCs in other scenarios, too, but
> somehow we never got around to it.


Good points.  Requires a little architecting.  Have to wait in an 
interruptible wait.  Hmm.  I could consider this direction too.

..mark


