# Re: CFA: pseudo-reloc v2

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-05-06T13:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100506134901.GA21258@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100506134901.GA21258@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../05/16-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/05/06/13-49-00)

On Wed, May 05, 2010 at 11:07:33PM -0400, Charles Wilson wrote:
> On 5/5/2010 3:13 PM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > That's basically it and I have it more-or-less coded but I haven't
> > finished thinking about DLLs.  Maybe that's more complication than is
> > warranted.  I have to do more research there.  We could, and I think
> > should, put most of the code in pseudo_reloc.c in cygwin1.dll, though,
> > rather than duplicate it in every source file.
>
>
> I disagree with this statement.
>
> I spent a lot of effort trying to synchronize our version of
> pseudo_reloc.c with the mingw and mingw64 versions -- specifically so
> that we could leverage Kai's v2 efforts.
>
> If we -- meaning cygwin -- move most of the guts into the cygwin DLL,
> then ... we either
>  (1) fork our version from the mingw[32|64] version permanently, and
> lose the possibility of "easy" code sharing between the three projects, or
>  (2) this portion of the code lives in both places (pseudo_reloc.c and
> some-other-cygwin-dll-source-file), but is #ifdef'ed in pseudo_reloc.c
> when compiled on cygwin, because there's this other identical copy over
> in some-other-cygwin-dll-source-file.


I kept the ifdef __CYGWIN__ stuff.  Moving the code into the DLL
actually simplifies the Cygwin part quite a bit since you can use things
like "winsup.h" and "small_printf".  And, my changes don't permute
things as much as Dave's.  Dave's changes were not really MinGW
friendly.

> Yuck.  (I don't mind "losing" the effort I put in, because whatever
> happens we now have v2 support.  But...why make it harder if somebody
> in mingw-land invents v3?  Or make it harder on them, if WE do?)


And, why not make it so that potentially all that is required for v3
support is a DLL upgrade rather than a rebuild?

cgf


