# Re: [PATCH] mkdir: alway check-for-existence

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | Ben <cygwin@wijen.net> |
| **Date** | 2019-06-03T19:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20190603193414.GO3437@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20190603193414.GO3437@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-31-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/06/03/19-35-00-1)

Hi Ben,

I'm fine with the patch, and it's short enough not to require an entry
in the CONTRIBUTORS file, but the commit msg needs some rephrasing:

On Jun  3 20:31, Ben wrote:
> When using either CreateDirectory or NtCreateFile when creating a directory
> that already exists, these functions return: ERROR_ALREADY_EXISTS


The Win32 and NT error codes don't match, so I'd prefer to drop
CreateDirectory from the text and use the NT status code names,
STATUS_OBJECT_NAME_COLLISION and STATUS_ACCESS_DENIED.

> However when using these function to create a directory (and all its
> parents)
> a normal use would be to start with mkdir(‘/c’) which translates to ‘C:\’


mkdir('/c') has no meaning by default.  The text should refer to the
default path "/cygdrive/c".

> for which both of these functions return ‘ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED’
>
> We could call NtCreateFile with 'FILE_OPEN_IF' instead of 'FILE_CREATE' but
> since that's an internal function we better always check for existence
> ourselves.


Not sure what you're trying to say here.  In how far would using
FILE_OPEN_IF help?  AFAICS it would just erroneously return
STATUS_SUCCESS, so fhandler_disk_file::mkdir would have to check
io.Information for FILE_OPENED or something like that.  Maybe this
paragraph can just go away?


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
