# Re: Fixing a security hole in pinfo.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-09-11T14:08:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3F6081D0.6D037160@phumblet.no-ip.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3F6081D0.6D037160@phumblet.no-ip.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](14-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/09/11/14-08-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> On Thu, Sep 11, 2003 at 12:27:00AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 12:15 AM 9/11/2003 -0400, you wrote:
> > > On Thu, Sep 11, 2003 at 12:05:42AM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > The flag PID_MAP_RW is added in the few pinfo constructors
> > > > that need to be write into _pinfo if it exists.
> > > > [snip]
> > > > diff -u -p -r1.166 exceptions.cc
> > > > ```diff
> > > > --- exceptions.cc    10 Sep 2003 17:26:12 -0000      1.166
> > > > +++ exceptions.cc    11 Sep 2003 03:40:57 -0000
> > > > @@ -610,7 +610,7 @@ sig_handle_tty_stop (int sig)
> > > >      its list of subprocesses.  */
> > > >   if (my_parent_is_alive ())
> > > >     {
> > > > -      pinfo parent (myself->ppid);
> > > > +      pinfo parent (myself->ppid, PID_MAP_RW);
> > > >       if (NOTSTATE (parent, PID_NOCLDSTOP))
> > > >     sig_send (parent, SIGCHLD);
> > > >     }
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > The above won't need to be RW when I check in my new signal changes.
> > > (Not that there won't be other inheritance type problems)
> >
> >
> > Yep, I kind of suspected that, but it's still needed now.
> > I count on your solution to solve the issue of seteuid'ed children.
> > In fact, does your solution ever write to a remote _pinfo?
> > The PID_MAP_RW flag may have a very short life!
>
>
> The parent still needs to write status flags (as in proc_subproc) in its
> children processes doesn't it?  Is that an issue here?  Otherwise,
> you're right.  I think that only parent processes will need to open this
> read/write.  I suspect there's still a security hole there, somewhere.


It's OK, I think. pchildren[nchildren] was created by the parent 
and created _pinfo's are always RW. In a patch to come the security 
attributes will give access to both parent and child in the seteuid case.
I don't see a security hole there, once all patches are in.

I take back my statement about PID_MAP_RW having a short life, it remains
necessary in setpgid. However in that case (pid is itself or a child) the 
current process already has an open _pinfo for the pid in question,
thus it's not really necessary to open a copy. So PID_MAP_RW will have
a short life only if we modify setpgid to use the existing _pinfo.

Pierre


