# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <pierre@phumblet.no-ip.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-14T17:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20041114123430.008289b0@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20041114123430.008289b0@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/14/17-39-00)

At 12:11 AM 11/14/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> When you first mentioned this, I had an idea that maybe we could be
> waiting on something else besides a process handle which would be
> inherited by any subprocesses.  I thought that maybe we could somehow
> use a mutex but there would always be a period when you'd have to do
> some tricky synchronization to make sure that the child gets to lock the
> mutex but the parent doesn't.
>
> I don't know how many times I have wished for a non-process handle that
> would become signalled when a process exits.
>
> So, today, it occurred to me that pipes could come to the rescue again.
> If we opened a pipe and put the write end in every child process, the
> parent could wait on the read end of the pipe.  When the last child
> process dies, the parent would wake up and do what it does now.
>
> At first, I was hoping that pipes would work correctly when called
> with WaitFor* and we could just drop pipe handles in there.  Of course,
> it can't be that simple and I really should have known that wouldn't
> work.  I think I have tried this technique about twice a year since
> 1998.
>
> Instead, you have to use ReadFile in a thread.  So, the children would
> gain an extra open handle, the parent would get some new threads.  But
> the parent would be able to track A LOT more subprocesses than the
> current 63.


That would be the key advantage of this approach. Do you have a
way (async I/O?) to avoid having one thread per child?
BTW, have you ever tried using select, having a connection from the
parent to the child?

> I just implemented most of this and it seems to work ok.  One side
> effect of this technique is that any subprocess created with
> CreateProcess will also inherit the pipe and so, a parent cygwin process
> will wait for all of the processes created with CreateProcess.  I'm not
> sure if I really care about that, though.
>
> The other negative side effect is the overhead of creating a pipe and a
> thread.  I don't think this is noticeable and this technique eliminates
> some overhead in cygwin, too.  It's not exactly a wash, but I'm hoping
> it won't be too bad, regardless.
>
> When I get the code to a point that it can run configure, I'll do a
> benchmark and see how bad this technique is.  If there is not a
> noticeable degradation, I think I'll probably duplicate the scenario of
> last year and checkin this revamp which, I believe will eliminate the
> security problem that you were talking about.


There is also the case where a setuid child needs to signal its parent.
That's another use of my ppid_waitsig, avoiding the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE
issue.
Could your "end of pid" pipe be used to transmit signals, with the reader
thread forwarding the sigpacket to the local sigthread?

Pierre


