# Re: [Patch] Fixing the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE security hole.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2004-11-14T18:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20041114180354.GB13076@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20041114180354.GB13076@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/03-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/11/14/18-03-00)

On Sun, Nov 14, 2004 at 12:34:30PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 12:11 AM 11/14/2004 -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > When you first mentioned this, I had an idea that maybe we could be
> > waiting on something else besides a process handle which would be
> > inherited by any subprocesses.  I thought that maybe we could somehow
> > use a mutex but there would always be a period when you'd have to do
> > some tricky synchronization to make sure that the child gets to lock the
> > mutex but the parent doesn't.
> >
> > I don't know how many times I have wished for a non-process handle that
> > would become signalled when a process exits.
> >
> > So, today, it occurred to me that pipes could come to the rescue again.
> > If we opened a pipe and put the write end in every child process, the
> > parent could wait on the read end of the pipe.  When the last child
> > process dies, the parent would wake up and do what it does now.
> >
> > At first, I was hoping that pipes would work correctly when called
> > with WaitFor* and we could just drop pipe handles in there.  Of course,
> > it can't be that simple and I really should have known that wouldn't
> > work.  I think I have tried this technique about twice a year since
> > 1998.
> >
> > Instead, you have to use ReadFile in a thread.  So, the children would
> > gain an extra open handle, the parent would get some new threads.  But
> > the parent would be able to track A LOT more subprocesses than the
> > current 63.
>
>
> That would be the key advantage of this approach. Do you have a
> way (async I/O?) to avoid having one thread per child?


AFAIK, you can't do async I/O on anonymous pipes.

> BTW, have you ever tried using select, having a connection from the
> parent to the child?


select involves polling or setting up other events to track end-of-pipe
conditions.  I don't think that's a win.

> > When I get the code to a point that it can run configure, I'll do a
> > benchmark and see how bad this technique is.  If there is not a
> > noticeable degradation, I think I'll probably duplicate the scenario of
> > last year and checkin this revamp which, I believe will eliminate the
> > security problem that you were talking about.
>
>
> There is also the case where a setuid child needs to signal its parent.
> That's another use of my ppid_waitsig, avoiding the PROCESS_DUP_HANDLE
> issue.
> Could your "end of pid" pipe be used to transmit signals, with the reader
> thread forwarding the sigpacket to the local sigthread?


It could but that's not its intent.  It's used now to transmit stop/continue
state but if you need to send a signal from parent to child, I don't think
it makes sense to relay it through this mechanism.

cgf


