# [PATCH] getmntent()->mnt_type values that match Linux...

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Ryan C. Gordon <icculus@icculus.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2007-03-19T06:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [45FE2DF8.40709@icculus.org](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/45FE2DF8.40709@icculus.org) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2007/03/19/06-30-00)


There was a discussion quite some time ago about getmntent()'s mnt_type 
field:

    http://www.cygwin.com/ml/cygwin-developers/2002-09/msg00078.html

...but nothing seems to have come of it. I noticed that Cygwin builds of 
PhysicsFS (http://icculus.org/physfs/) don't detect CD-ROM drives since 
mnt_type is always "system" or "user" ... this patch changes this to 
make an earnest effort to match what a GNU/Linux system would report, 
and moves the system/user string to mnt_opts.

Without some solution like this, code external to Cygwin would have to 
take heroic measures (#ifdefs and calls into the Win32 API) to figure 
out what type of filesystem /cygdrive/f really is.

After patching, here's the output from "mount" for a hard drive with two 
NTFS partitions (C: and D:), a CD-ROM drive (E:), a FAT memory stick 
(F:), and a Samba share (Z:) ...

$ mount
C:\cygwin\bin on /usr/bin type ntfs (binmode,system)
C:\cygwin\lib on /usr/lib type ntfs (binmode,system)
C:\cygwin on / type ntfs (binmode,system)
c: on /cygdrive/c type ntfs (binmode,noumount,system)
d: on /cygdrive/d type ntfs (binmode,noumount,system)
e: on /cygdrive/e type iso9660 (binmode,noumount,system)
f: on /cygdrive/f type vfat (binmode,noumount,system)
z: on /cygdrive/z type smbfs (binmode,noumount,system)


I haven't noticed any side effects of this patch, but my testing of the 
Cygwin system as a whole is fairly limited. Comments welcome.

Patch is against latest CVS.

Thanks,
--ryan.


2007-03-19  Ryan C. Gordon  <icculus@icculus.org>

	* path.cc (fs_info::update): set and use is_cdrom.
	* path.cc (fillout_mntent): set ret.mnt_type to something more
	Linux-like, based on data from fs_info. Move "system" and "user"
	strings from mnt_type to mnt_opts.
	* path.h (struct fs_info): Add is_cdrom field.
	* path.h (fs_info::clear): Initialize is_cdrom.
	* path.h (struct fs_info): Add IMPLEMENT_STATUS_FLAG(bool,is_cdrom).
	* path.h (class path_conv): Add fs_is_cdrom method. Add missing
	fs_is_netapp method.




---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin-getmntent-mnt_type-RYAN1.diff](cygwin-getmntent-mnt_type-RYAN1.diff) (text)
