# RE: cygserver patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@syncretize.net> |
| **To** | 'Conrad Scott' <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-20T13:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [004b01c21899$07845090$0200a8c0@lifelesswks](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/004b01c21899$07845090$0200a8c0@lifelesswks) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-28-00-1.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/20/13-28-00-1)

I'm short on time (still!).

Can you generate a patch including the following changes:
> * Conditionalize the security code so that cygserver works on non-NT
> platforms.
> * Add definitions of the strace XXX_printf macros to allow code to use
> these whether it's compiled for the DLL or for the daemon.
> ```
> * Several minor C++ related changes: for example, making some methods
> pure virtual, and adding virtual destructors throughout as required.
> * Add --version and --help options.
> * Add checking for an existing instance of the daemon to avoid having
> ```
>
> multiple copies running.
> ```
> * Some more error checking throughout.
>
> * Refactor the client request classes for greater encapsulation and to
> support variable length requests.
> ```
>


I need to review the last above change, as variable length requests were
already supported. I think that the ipcs preparation changes should stay
on the branch for now. If you can generate such a patch, I will review
it asap (ie a few days :[).

Cheers,
Rob


> -----Original Message-----
> From: cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com 
> [mailto:cygwin-patches-owner@cygwin.com] On Behalf Of Conrad Scott
> Sent: Wednesday, 19 June 2002 9:23 AM
> To: cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
> Subject: cygserver patch
>
>
> I've been committing a sequence of patches for cygserver on the
> cygwin_daemon branch over the last few days and I was thinking it was
> about time to submit the current batch for consideration for the
> mainline. I've attached a cumulative ChangeLog for the individual
> patches and a bzip'ed patch file. (I've not appended the entire
> ChangeLog here as it's rather long.) This patch is against the current
> HEAD version, which I merged into the branch yesterday. Nicholas
> Wourms has kindly downloaded the branch version and confirmed that it
> works on a non-NT platform. I've also successfully run the ipctests
> and has the server running continually while I've been developing. In
> other words, I don't seem to have broken anything :-)
>
> Which is all well and good, but what have I actually done? Summary:
>
> * Conditionalize the security code so that cygserver works on non-NT
> platforms.
> ```
> * Refactor the client request classes for greater encapsulation and to
> support variable length requests.
> * Add new interfaces for the (eventual) implementation of ipcs(8).
> * Add definitions of the strace XXX_printf macros to allow code to use
> ```
>
> these whether it's compiled for the DLL or for the daemon.
> ```
> * Several minor C++ related changes: for example, making some methods
> pure virtual, and adding virtual destructors throughout as required.
> * Add --version and --help options.
> * Add checking for an existing instance of the daemon to avoid having
> ```
>
> multiple copies running.
> * Some more error checking throughout.
>
> In other words, almost nothing shm related as it's not quite finished,
> so I've not checked any of that into the branch as yet. This is all
> just groundwork :-)
>
> [One thing to note about this patch is that it includes a new file,
> "woutsup.h". I only mention this in case anything special needs to be
> done in cvs if/when the patch is committed.]
>
> I hope this is all fine and that someone has a chance to look it over
> sometime soon-ish.
>
> Thanks.
>
> // Conrad
>
>



