# Re: YACP

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-20T17:57:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020621005707.27244.qmail@web20004.mail.yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020621005707.27244.qmail@web20004.mail.yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](17-57-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/20/17-57-00)

So is the UNC type coming back at some point? 

It would be fine with me to leave the '--type TYPE' syntax as an 
alternative to --unix, --windows, --mixed, but having the --type mixed
as the only way to get a forward-slash Windows path seemed counter-
intuitive to me. Also --type dos to me should mean short-name as well.
So should I put together another patch to do this as well?

And BTW, is the UNIXy default OK?

```diff
--- Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
```

> On Thu, Jun 20, 2002 at 06:17:21PM -0500, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> > YACP (Yet Another Cygpath Patch)
> >
> > The major change that this make is setting the UNIXy output to be the
> > default. This was already true for the -ADHPSW options. If this is a
> > bad idea for some reason unknown to me, there were only 3 lines changed
> > to do it. (Everything still works with --unix, of course.)
> >
> > Also, thinking about this new --type TYPE option, I was wondering what
> > exactly the 'dos' type did. So I look at the code:
> >
> > -         if (strcasecmp (windows_format_arg, "mixed") == 0)
> > -           mixed_flag = 1;
> > -         else if (strcasecmp (windows_format_arg, "dos") == 0)
> > -           /* nothing */;
> > -         else
> > -           usage (stderr, 1);
> > -         break;
> >
> > Ah! It does /* nothing */, I see. So also this patch REMOVES the
> > -t, --type option and changes it to -m, --mixed instead. This is hopefully
> > easier to understand.
>
>
> Actually, there was another option but it was obsolete so I removed it.
> I figured that the --type option would provide the capability for other
> formats for filenames in the future, like //?/ or whatever.
>
> cgf



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! - Official partner of 2002 FIFA World Cup
http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com


