# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Export <io.h> symbols with underscore

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-02-21T11:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130221111545.GA24054@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130221111545.GA24054@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/21-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/02/21/11-16-00)

On Feb 20 20:14, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Feb 20, 2013 at 03:16:00PM -0600, Yaakov wrote:
> > I have already encountered issues with the lack of leading-underscored
> > exports for symbols declared in <io.h>, as usage thereof often occurs
> > in shared Cygwin/Win32 conditional code, and on Win32 these are
> > underscored.  Patch attached for the two symbols I have seen so far,
> > but I wonder if I should just get it over with and add _access as well.
> >
> >
> > Yaakov
> >
> > 2013-02-20  Yaakov Selkowitz  <yselkowitz@...>
> >
> > 	* cygwin64.din: Restore _get_osfhandle and _setmode.
>
>
> Ugh.  I've been slowly getting rid of some of those inexplicably underscored
> functions now we have to keep the converse around.  I wonder if the non-underscored
> versions can actually be deleted since they are supposed to exist in the userspace
> with an explicit underscore.


We have to make a tradeoff between backward compatibility and getting
rid of the underscored variants of ANSI function added in the early days
to provide a falsely understood compatibility with MSVCRT.

I have no problem to keep the underscored _get_osfhandle and _setmode
since these are non-standard entry points anyway, and we also have to
keep some underscored exports for newlib.  But we should not add the
MSVCRT ANSI calls back (like _access).  That was plainly wrong to begin
with.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


