# Re: [PATCH 64bit] Export <io.h> symbols with underscore

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2013-02-21T19:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20130221194236.GA1163@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20130221194236.GA1163@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/21-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2013/02/21/19-42-00)

On Thu, Feb 21, 2013 at 12:15:45PM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Feb 20 20:14, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Wed, Feb 20, 2013 at 03:16:00PM -0600, Yaakov wrote:
> > > I have already encountered issues with the lack of leading-underscored
> > > exports for symbols declared in <io.h>, as usage thereof often occurs
> > > in shared Cygwin/Win32 conditional code, and on Win32 these are
> > > underscored.  Patch attached for the two symbols I have seen so far,
> > > but I wonder if I should just get it over with and add _access as well.
> > >
> > >
> > > Yaakov
> > >
> > > 2013-02-20  Yaakov Selkowitz  <yselkowitz@...>
> > >
> > > 	* cygwin64.din: Restore _get_osfhandle and _setmode.
> >
> >
> > Ugh.  I've been slowly getting rid of some of those inexplicably underscored
> > functions now we have to keep the converse around.  I wonder if the non-underscored
> > versions can actually be deleted since they are supposed to exist in the userspace
> > with an explicit underscore.
>
>
> We have to make a tradeoff between backward compatibility and getting
> rid of the underscored variants of ANSI function added in the early days
> to provide a falsely understood compatibility with MSVCRT.
>
> I have no problem to keep the underscored _get_osfhandle and _setmode
> since these are non-standard entry points anyway, and we also have to
> keep some underscored exports for newlib.  But we should not add the
> MSVCRT ANSI calls back (like _access).  That was plainly wrong to begin
> with.


I wasn't fulling grokking the fact that Cygwin explicitly defined the
get_osfhandle without an underscore in io.h.  Sigh.  That's probably my
fault too.

But we definitely shouldn't be going back to adding "_" decorations.  I
have deleted a few of these and no one has complained.  I know that
isn't a scientific sampling but it's hard to believe that someone has
written code which actually goes out of its way to prepend an underscore
in front of a standard UNIX function name, especially since we do not,
AFAIK, define these functions in any header file.

So, I guess I don't understand why we need to add an underscore now
when we have gotten by with the incorrect declaration for get_osfhandle
all of these years.

cgf


