# Re: [PATCH/libiberty] Fix PR38903 Cygwin GCC bootstrap failure [was Re: Libiberty issue vs cygwin [was Re: This is a Cygwin failure yeah?]]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Dave Korn <dave.korn.cygwin@googlemail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com, gcc-patches@gcc.gnu.org |
| **Date** | 2009-01-18T05:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [2ca21dcc0901172149u761a74b3p54942cdd9417225d@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2ca21dcc0901172149u761a74b3p54942cdd9417225d@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/01/18/05-49-00)

[Cc list trimmed]
Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sun, Jan 18, 2009 at 12:52:14AM +0000, Dave Korn wrote:
> > I've tested
> > this by doing (separate) native builds of GCC, winsup,
>

                                                  ^^^^^^ :P see below!

> > GCC is in stage 4, but this is target-specific and fixes a bootstrap
> > failure on a secondary platform.
> >
> > Ok for HEAD of both gcc/ and src/ ?
> >
> > libiberty/ChangeLog
> >
> > * configure.ac (funcs, vars, checkfuncs): Don't munge on Cygwin, as it
> > no longer shares libiberty object files.  * configure: Regenerated.
>
>
> Just in case you need confirmation:  this looks fine.


  Thanks, I thought it would be the right thing to do.  Just waiting on DJ or
ILT's approval now.

> I removed the dependence on libiberty a while ago partially because,
> AFAICT, it actually subverted Red Hat's claim of owning all source code
> in Cygwin.  You can't really say that if there are pure FSF GPLed or
> LGPLed pieces.


  Yep, I discovered that you removed it from the winsup module definition, I
only "tested" it for a winsup build (as mentioned above) because I had an old
source tree that still had it there by accident of "cvs -dP" not removing
subdirectories that only get changed in the modules list.  In a fresh checkout
there's nothing to test!

```
    cheers,
      DaveK
```



