# FW: roken strptime addition to cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-18T05:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A71@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A71@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](05-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/18/05-24-00)

Weird.  I was going off the address I saw Robert post too.  I'll correct
that.

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Earnie Boyd [mailto:earnie_boyd@yahoo.com]
> Sent: Friday, January 18, 2002 8:21 AM
> To: Mark Bradshaw
> Cc: 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com'
> Subject: Re: roken strptime addition to cygwin
>
>
> Uh, there isn't a newlib-patches.  Patches get sent to
> newlib@sources.redhat.com.
>
> Earnie.
>
> Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> >
> > BTW, the last was CC'd to the newlib-patches group without 
>
> being subscribed,
> > and I got a bounce.  I didn't see a signup for it on the 
>
> newlib site, so I
> > just hoped that it would allow emails in without a 
>
> subscription.  Guess not.
> > Could someone with appropriate uber powers please check that one in.
> >
> > > -----Original Message-----
> > > From: Mark Bradshaw
> > > Sent: Friday, January 18, 2002 8:13 AM
> > > To: 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com'; newlib-patches@sources.redhat.com
> > > Subject: roken strptime addition to cygwin
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks to Robert and Chuck for behind the scenes help.
> > >
> > > Here's the strptime addition to cygwin that's been discussed.
> > >  The source
> > > comes from:
> > > http://ftp.uninett.no/pub/OpenBSD/src/kerberosIV/src/lib/roken
> >
> > /strptime.c
> >
> > It's copyright isn't as restrictive as the BSD's, so it 
>
> won't be a problem
> > for inclusion.  This also includes a header change for newlib.
> >
> > ====================================
> >
> > Newlib:
> > 2002-01-18  Mark Bradshaw  <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com>
> >
> >         * libc/include/time.h: Add prototype for strptime 
>
> for Cygwin.
> >
> > Cygwin:
> > 2002-01-18  Mark Bradshaw  <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com>
> >
> >         * times.cc: Add strptime function, and supporting functions.
> >           * cygwin.din: strptime
>
>
> _________________________________________________________
> Do You Yahoo!?
> Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
>



