# RE: roken strptime addition to cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Bradshaw <bradshaw@staff.crosswalk.com> |
| **To** | 'Corinna Vinschen' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-01-18T15:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A82@cnmail](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/911C684A29ACD311921800508B7293BA037D2A82@cnmail) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](15-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/01/18/15-46-00)

Sure.  Next week...

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Corinna Vinschen [mailto:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com]
> Sent: Friday, January 18, 2002 6:43 PM
> To: 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com'
> Subject: Re: roken strptime addition to cygwin
>
>
> On Fri, Jan 18, 2002 at 08:17:44AM -0500, Mark Bradshaw wrote:
> > BTW, the last was CC'd to the newlib-patches group without 
>
> being subscribed,
> > and I got a bounce.  I didn't see a signup for it on the 
>
> newlib site, so I
> > just hoped that it would allow emails in without a 
>
> subscription.  Guess not.
> > Could someone with appropriate uber powers please check that one in.
>
>
> While the newlib change is alredy checked in I have a question
> to the function itself.
>
> Wouldn't it make more sense to apply that function to newlib
> itself?
>
> What bugs me is that the newlib/libc/time/strftime.c source
> already defines the needed static arrays with day names and
> month names.  It looks to me as if it would be useful to
> put strptime() into that strftime.c file since otherwise
> we're ending up with these arrays twice.  The next advantage
> would be that not only Cygwin has an advantage of that but
> all newlib targets.
>
> So I would like to suggest that you move the function implementaton
> into newlib/libc/time/strftime.c, Mark.  The extern declaration in
> libc/include/time.h could be moved out of the `#ifdef __CYGWIN__'
> brackets and the cygwin.din patch would stay as it is.
>
> Is that ok?
>
> Corinna
>
> -- 
> Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails 
> regarding Cygwin to
> Cygwin Developer                                
> mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
> Red Hat, Inc.
>



