# Re: [1.7] rename/renameat error

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <ebb9@byu.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-09-26T00:03:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ABD5A4A.9060603@byu.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ABD5A4A.9060603@byu.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/12-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/26/00-03-00)

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

According to Christopher Faylor on 9/25/2009 9:11 AM:
> > > ```
> > > +  /* POSIX says mkdir("symlink-to-missing/") should create the
> > > +     directory "missing", but Linux rejects it with EEXIST.  Copy
> > > +     Linux behavior for now.  */
> > > +
> > > +  dlen = strlen (dir);
> > > ```
> > >
> > > +  if (isdirsep (dir[dlen - 1]))
> >
>
>
> Couldn't this index negatively if dir is zero length?


Yep, and so could rename, where this was copied from.  Fixed in the respin
below.

>
> > > ```
> > > +    {
> > > +      stpcpy (newbuf = tp.c_get (), dir);
> > > ```
> > >
> >
>
>
> Since stpcpy returns a pointer to the end of the buffer couldn't we use that
> and do pointer arithmetic rather than index arithmetic?


Theoretically, a good compiler can do just as well with either.  But how
does it look now?

> > > -  char new_buf[strlen (newpath) + 5];
> > > +  if (isdirsep (newpath[nlen - 1]) || has_dot_last_component (newpath, false))
> >
>
>
> Same observation:  Couldn't newpath be zero length?


Also fixed below; actually this one is fixed by using PC_NULLEMPTY, which
guarantees newpc.error will be set to ENOENT and skip this line of code.

2009-09-25  Eric Blake  <ebb9@byu.net>

	* syscalls.cc (link): Delete obsolete comment.  Reject directories
	and missing source up front.
	(rename): Use correct errno for trailing '.'.  Detect empty
	strings.  Allow trailing slash to newpath iff oldpath is
	directory.
	* dir.cc (mkdir): Reject dangling symlink with trailing slash.
	* fhandler_disk_file.cc (fhandler_disk_file::link): Reject
	trailing slash.
	* fhandler.cc (fhandler_base::link): Match Linux errno.

- --
Don't work too hard, make some time for fun as well!

Eric Blake             ebb9@byu.net
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Cygwin)
Comment: Public key at home.comcast.net/~ericblake/eblake.gpg
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/

iEYEARECAAYFAkq9WkoACgkQ84KuGfSFAYBPqwCbBpmB5/wvDfq1I6gKTPGILjpe
VcMAoLyrCfwt0kHJLSLDI8nQ9nWethku
=TgSy
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygwin.patch25](cygwin.patch25) (text)
