# Re: [PATCH] Checking integrity of installed packages in cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-13T18:33:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308131432260.192-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308131432260.192-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](18-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/13/18-33-00)

Ping!  This is pretty urgent, as the code that's currently in CVS won't
work and has a buffer overflow.
	Igor

On Sun, 10 Aug 2003, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:

> On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > On Sat, Aug 09, 2003 at 03:52:55PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > > On Sat, 9 Aug 2003, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > On checking this patch a little further, I see that it gives a
> > > > misleading "OK" when the package file is missing.  Could you detect
> > > > that case?
> > >
> > >
> > > Yes.  The attached patch (against the initial one applied) does just
> > > that.
> >
> >
> > I've checked this in, too, with some changes.  The version of this file
> > in CVS had my fix to convert slashes to backslashes so your patch didn't
> > cleanly apply.  I also allocated a static buffer and only calculated the
> > DOS pathname for gzip.exe once.  Finally, I changed all of the
> > formatting to GNU-style.
>
>
> Ugh, yes, I forgot to do a CVS update...  Sorry about that.  As for the
> GNU-style formatting, that space between the function name and the paren
> always trips me up...
>
> Anyway, there were some bugs in the code that was checked in -- the
> attached patch fixes them.
>
> > Thanks for this increased functionality.  I used this to update my own
> > installation.  It looks like I had somehow damaged my installation a
> > while ago.  Some files were missing, some package lists were missing.
> > Who knew?
> >
> > cgf
>
>
> Glad it was useful.
> 	Igor
> ==============================================================================
> ChangeLog:
> 2003-08-10  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>
>
> 	* dump_setup.cc (check_package_files): Fix extra '/' in filename.
> 	Resize command buffer.  Fix buffer overflow bug.


-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck-verify-packages-fix.patch](cygcheck-verify-packages-fix.patch) (text)
