# Re: Fwd: Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api building

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de> |
| **To** | Earnie Boyd <earnie@users.sourceforge.net>, Keith Marshall <keith.d.marshall@ntlworld.com> |
| **Date** | 2012-10-24T07:49:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121024074930.GA28885@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121024074930.GA28885@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-49-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/24/07-49-00)

On Oct 23 17:48, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Oct 23, 2012 at 09:50:10PM +0100, Keith Marshall wrote:
> > And just like Earnie's, the response he requested from me also bounced.
> > Forwarded copy below:
> >
> > -------- Original Message --------
> > Subject: Re: [patch]: Decouple cygwin building from in-tree mingw/w32api 
> > building
> > Date: Tue, 23 Oct 2012 21:41:07 +0100
> > From: Keith Marshall <...>
> > Organization: MinGW Project
> > To: Earnie Boyd <...>
> > CC: cygwin-patches<...>
> >
> > On 22/10/12 12:14, Earnie Boyd wrote:
> > > On Mon, Oct 22, 2012 at 12:09 AM, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > Earnie, we seem to be transitioning from the need to have a
> > > > mingw/w32api in the source tree.  What do you think about removing
> > > > these directories from the depot and moving repo to sourceforge, or
> > > > some other place?
> > >
> > >
> > > In anticipation of this event I've already copied the source.  I would
> > > like to leave the code in winsup until the end of the year if that
> > > timeline is fine with Keith.
> >
> >
> > Fine by me; I also have my Mercurial clones of both repositories, from
> > the time when we abandoned them in favour of our own git repository on
> > SourceForge.
> >
> > > > You've got a home for as long as you like on sourceware.org but I was
> > > > thinking that it might be advantageous for mingw to move anyway.
> > >
> > >
> > > Thanks and we agree that the move is advantageous.
> > >
> > > > If it helps, I can provide tar copies of the directories from
> > > > sourceware.
> > >
> > >
> > > I don't think I need them; Keith what do you think?
> >
> >
> > We've moved on, anyway; any such copies would surely be obsolete.
>
>
> I think it's pretty clear that we didn't know you had moved on.  The
> last update to w32api was on 2012-08-10 and mingw was on 2012-08-06.
>
> A heads up would have been appreciated.


Just to be sure:  Does that mean we can simply remove the mingw and
w32api dirs in the sourceware repo any time?


Corinna


