# Re: [patch cygwin]: Replace inline-assembler in string.h by C implementation

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-10-24T16:01:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20121024160118.GB31186@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20121024160118.GB31186@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](09-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/10/24/16-01-00)

On Oct 24 11:42, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Oct 24, 2012 at 11:07:47AM -0400, Ryan Johnson wrote:
> > On 24/10/2012 5:16 AM, Kai Tietz wrote:
> > > Hello,
> > >
> > > this patch replaces the inline-assember used in string.h by C implementation.
> > > There are three reasons why I want to suggest this.  First, the C-code might
> > > be optimized further by fixed (constant) arguments.  Secondly, it is
> > > architecture
> > > independent and so we just need to maintain on code-path.  And as
> > > third point, by
> > > inspecting generated assembly code produced by compiler out of C code
> > > vs. inline-assembler
> > > it shows that compiler produces better code.  It handles
> > > jump-threading better, and also
> > > improves average executed instructions.
> >
> > Devil's advocate: better-looking code isn't always faster code.
> >
> > However, I'm surprised that code was inline asm in the first place -- no 
> > special instructions or unusual control flow -- and would not be at all 
> > surprised if the compiler does a better job.
> >
> > Also, the portability issue is relevant now that cygwin is starting the 
> > move toward 64-bit support.
>
>
> Yes, that's exactly why Kai is proposing this.
>
> I haven't looked at the code but I almost always have one response to
> a "I want to rewrite a standard function" patches:
>
> Have you looked at other implementations?  The current one was based
> on a linux implementation.  A C version of these functions has likely
> been written before, possibly even in newlib.  Were those considered?


Now that you mention it.

There's strchrnul in newlib, which could simply replace strechr.
There's no equivalent for ascii_strcasecmp or ascii_strncasecmp in
newlib since the newlib function are multibyte capable and thus 
slower.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


