# RE: Mouse support

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Town, Brad <btown@ceddec.com> |
| **To** | 'cygwin-patches@cygwin.com' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2000-12-04T07:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [F10D23B02E54D011A0AB0020AF9CEFE988FA80@lynx.ceddec.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/F10D23B02E54D011A0AB0020AF9CEFE988FA80@lynx.ceddec.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/12/04/07-30-00)

Christopher Faylor [ mailto:cgf@redhat.com ] wrote:
> > . Instead of mouse support always being enabled (as it is 
>
> now), it should be
> > enabled when the console receives \E[?1000h and disabled 
>
> when the console
> > receives \E[?1000l.  (That's a lower-case 'L'.)
>
>
> I think this is a big issue, actually.
>
> I'd rather not enable this by default because people will be 
> clicking in the
> console window and will see strange characters in their bash 
> shells, won't
> they?


I agree wholeheartedly.  Does anyone have advice on how to add this
properly?  I tried adding a member variable to fhandler_console to flag
whether or not the mouse should be used, but it gets called by a different
instance of fhandler_console.

My enable/disable code works if the mouse flag is a global static variable,
but I don't think that's the Right Thing to Do.  Hints?

> > . Single-clicking and triple-clicking seem to work fine, but 
>
> for ncurses's
> > "ncurses" program to see a double-click, you need to move the mouse
> > afterward.  I spent the better part of the afternoon looking 
>
> for the cause,
> > but to no avail.
>
>
> Hmm.  Is select not returning correctly, maybe?


That's what I was thinking.  Specifically, I thought the peek_console
routine was acting up with my changes.  I couldn't find anything, though.

I had put temporary "waiting"/"done" syscall_printfs around the
WaitForMultipleEvents in fhandler_console::read.  After single-clicks, it
would go back to waiting.  After double-clicks, it would not.  The screwy
thing is that I'm treating double-clicks just like single-clicks.  I'm at
Witt's End.

Brad Town


