# Re: qt patch for winnt.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-07-26T07:59:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020726145955.GD25444@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020726145955.GD25444@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/07/26/07-59-00)

On Fri, Jul 26, 2002 at 01:07:37PM +0200, Ralf Habacker wrote:
> > > On Thu, Jul 25, 2002 at 09:43:16PM +0200, Ralf Habacker wrote:
> > > > > I do prefer feature-centric ifdefs, but I don't think that adding this
> > > > > particular definition of HANDLE to the windows headers makes sense.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I think too, but you have another solution yet. :-)
> > >
> > >
> > > Not my yob.
> > >
> >
> > Why not, you have rich experience in progamming and so on
> >
>
> To avoid misunderstandings, I only want to say, that I like your
> experience in finding solutions and that you have probably a better
> overview than I .-)


I also get to choose the programming projects that I work on, the last I
checked.

I have politely suggested a couple of alternatives.  Robert Collins has
given you another suggestion.

I don't claim to understand your problem fully but it doesn't seem
insurmountable to me.  You're right that I have a lot of experience in
programming and have probably solved problems like this many times.
Maybe as a hint, I should offer the fact that I've never had to resort
to modifying system headers to fix problems like this.

If I was doing this, I'd isolate all of the Windows calls in a separate
file and use native Windows headers.  Or, I'd create wrapper include
files.

That's about the limit of the amount of debugging of your problem that
I'm willing to give.

I was kind of hoping that I wouldn't have to raise the off-topic flag
but helping people port their projects is clearly not on-topic for this
mailing list.

And, please no arguments about this.  This is it.  Move discussions
off-list please or to cygwin@cygwin, please.

cgf


