# Re: signal semaphores inheritance

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Egor Duda <deo@logos-m.ru> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-02-21T03:43:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [286043253.20010221144030@logos-m.ru](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/286043253.20010221144030@logos-m.ru) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/02/21/03-43-00)

Hi!

Wednesday, 21 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:

> > > >   if  ntsec is on and cygwin app a.exe  (with pid x) starts non-cygwin
> > > > app  b.exe,  b.exe  inherits  cygwin1S3.sigcatch.x semaphore. if a.exe
> > > > dies  and  b.exe continue  execution,  and  if  new  cygwin  app c.exe
> > > > got  pid  x it, fails to create sigcatch semaphore. looks like typo in
> > > > getsem() to me. is this patch ok?
> > >
> >
> >
> > CV> Did you check it with apps chenging the user context? AFAIR I had
> > CV> a reason using an inheritable SD...
> >
> > hmm.  i  haven't noticed any differences. i may have missed something,
> > though.  but,  if this handle is supposed to be inheritable, shouldn't
> > it  be  DuplicateHandle()'d  in  child  process?  I've grepped through
> > sources  and haven't find any DuplicateHandle() used on semaphores. so
> > even   if   this   handle  is  made inheritable, i don't see the place
> > where child is using it.
>


CV> Please don't misunderstand me. I'm asking that question because I'm
CV> really unsure why this is an inheritable SD and I only remember (in
CV> the deepest corner of my brain) that there might have been _some_ issue
CV> to do it that way but my alzheimer disease is getting worse...

CV> If you have tested the patch with using telnet or ssh to actually
CV> change the user context and an `id' results in the correct identity
CV> and the permissions seem to be ok then I have no problem with your patch.

i've    tested   it in several simple scenarios, and it seems to work.
user  context is changed, id shows correct info, and i can send SIGINT
to process run under sshd via pressing Ctrl-C.

i've checked this patch in.

of   course,  i'm  sure i haven't tested all those obscure cases which
can   appear  in  cygwin  signal processing. If anyone find such case,
and  it  turns  out  that  sigcatch  semaphore  should  persist  after
it's    creator    dies,   i   think    we'll    need    to   change
cygwin1S3.sigcatch.PID semaphore name to something more unique.

Egor.            mailto:deo@logos-m.ru ICQ 5165414 FidoNet 2:5020/496.19



