# Re: signal semaphores inheritance

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-02-21T11:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010221095311.A6088@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010221095311.A6088@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../20/08-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/02/21/11-52-00)

On Wed, Feb 21, 2001 at 02:40:30PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Wednesday, 21 February, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:
>
> > > > >   if  ntsec is on and cygwin app a.exe  (with pid x) starts non-cygwin
> > > > > app  b.exe,  b.exe  inherits  cygwin1S3.sigcatch.x semaphore. if a.exe
> > > > > dies  and  b.exe continue  execution,  and  if  new  cygwin  app c.exe
> > > > > got  pid  x it, fails to create sigcatch semaphore. looks like typo in
> > > > > getsem() to me. is this patch ok?
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > CV> Did you check it with apps chenging the user context? AFAIR I had
> > > CV> a reason using an inheritable SD...
> > >
> > > hmm.  i  haven't noticed any differences. i may have missed something,
> > > though.  but,  if this handle is supposed to be inheritable, shouldn't
> > > it  be  DuplicateHandle()'d  in  child  process?  I've grepped through
> > > sources  and haven't find any DuplicateHandle() used on semaphores. so
> > > even   if   this   handle  is  made inheritable, i don't see the place
> > > where child is using it.
> >
>
>
> CV> Please don't misunderstand me. I'm asking that question because I'm
> CV> really unsure why this is an inheritable SD and I only remember (in
> CV> the deepest corner of my brain) that there might have been _some_ issue
> CV> to do it that way but my alzheimer disease is getting worse...
>
> CV> If you have tested the patch with using telnet or ssh to actually
> CV> change the user context and an `id' results in the correct identity
> CV> and the permissions seem to be ok then I have no problem with your patch.
>
> i've    tested   it in several simple scenarios, and it seems to work.
> user  context is changed, id shows correct info, and i can send SIGINT
> to process run under sshd via pressing Ctrl-C.


Knowing how signals work, I can't imagine a scenario where inheriting the
semaphore would be useful.  I think that Egor's patch is correct.

cgf


