# Re: src/winsup Makefile.common ChangeLog

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mumit Khan <khan@NanoTech.Wisc.EDU> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2001-02-21T19:14:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.HPP.3.96.1010221210751.20219D-100000@hp2.xraylith.wisc.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.HPP.3.96.1010221210751.20219D-100000@hp2.xraylith.wisc.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](16-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/02/21/19-14-00)

On Wed, 21 Feb 2001, Christopher Faylor wrote:

> On Wed, Feb 21, 2001 at 07:01:11PM -0500, Earnie Boyd wrote:
> >
> > Are you positive about this patch?  I thought that problems existed
> > unless all libraries were compiled -fvtable-thunks.
>
>
> Huh.  I just asked Corinna to discuss this here to see if anyone had
> any idea if this would cause problems.  It sounds like it might be
> a potential speedup for cygwin, though?


Thunks allow *some* optimization, and makes the vtable layout compatible
with MS COM objects, so it's a big plus. It's the default for Linux.
However, there are a two primary considerations, and these are primarily
why I resisted making it the default when it was discussed the last time
(I believe just before gcc-2.95 was first released for Cygwin/Mingw):

1 Binary incompatibility: *everything* must be build accordingly. 
2 There are bugs in vtable thunks implementation that causes trouble with
```
  certain types of multiple inheritance. I had to redesign some of our 
  code so that it would work under Linux. It's supposedly fixed for 
  gcc-2.95.3 (backported from the mainline). Fortunately, most user 
  codes don't make extensive use of multiple inheritance, and it hasn't 
  been that big of an issue.

```

If you mix and match code compiled with -fvtable-thunks, it'll fail
mysteriously, and a debugger won't help you there either. However, I
don't know if building Cygwin with it will impact user code (it really
shouldn't, but that's not based on hard evidence).

I have not observed appreciable speedup with -fvtable-thunks except for
some specific cases.

Regards,
Mumit



