# PATCH: Implementation of functions in netdb.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Craig McGeachie <slapdau@yahoo.com.au> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-18T13:26:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3DDA11BD.5862.1E11B85E@localhost](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3DDA11BD.5862.1E11B85E@localhost) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/18/13-26-00)

This is an implementation of [set|get|end][serv|proto]ent functions as
defined in netdb.h.  It was written primarily so I could port the DHCP
software from ISC to Cygwin.

Firstly, this is a larger than trivial submission, I suppose I will 
have fill in a standard assignment form.  However, I thought I post 
this first to see if I'm on the right track.

This has been coded against the 1.3.14-1 sources.  That's what was 
available when I started, and I can't read the CVS repository directly.

I only have the W2K machine to work and test on.  Consequently I can't 
be
sure that the Win95/98/ME path names for the protocol and services 
files
are correct and work.  If they aren't, then the files will not be 
opened,
and all calls to get[serv|proto]ent will return NULL. the set and end
functions will quietly do nothing.

I have implemented all the functions in a new file called netdb.cc.  I
wasn't sure if I should add the new file, or add functions to net.cc.  
I
went for the new file, in the expectation that I would add get|set|end
functions for the hosts and networks files and some stage in the 
future.

2002-11-19 Craig McGeachie <slapdau@yahoo.com.au>
 * netdb.cc (open_system_file, get_entire_line, get_alias_list)
 (open_services_file, parse_services_line, free_servent)
 (cygwin_setservent, cygwin_getservent, cygwin_endservent)
 (open_protocol_file, parse_protocol_line, free_protoent)
 (cygwin_setprotoent, cygwin_getprotoent, cygwin_endprotoent):
 Create a new file implementing the service and protocol
 enumeration functions in netdb.h.
 * Makeile.in (DLL_OFILES): Add reference to the new netdb.cc
 file.
 * cygwin.din : Add new aliased exports for service and
 protocol enumerations in netdb.cc.

----------------+-------------------------------------------------
Craig McGeachie | #include <cheesy_tag.h>
+64(21)037-6917 | while (!inebriated) c2h5oh=(++bottle)->contents;
----------------+-------------------------------------------------




