# Re: PATCH: Implementation of functions in netdb.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-18T14:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021118225717.GA17408@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021118225717.GA17408@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/18/14-56-00)

On Tue, Nov 19, 2002 at 10:26:05AM +1300, Craig McGeachie wrote:
Content-Description: Mail message body
> This is an implementation of [set|get|end][serv|proto]ent functions as
> defined in netdb.h.  It was written primarily so I could port the DHCP
> software from ISC to Cygwin.
>
> Firstly, this is a larger than trivial submission, I suppose I will 
> have fill in a standard assignment form.  However, I thought I post 
> this first to see if I'm on the right track.
>
> This has been coded against the 1.3.14-1 sources.  That's what was 
> available when I started, and I can't read the CVS repository directly.


Why?

> I have implemented all the functions in a new file called netdb.cc.  I
> wasn't sure if I should add the new file, or add functions to net.cc.
> I went for the new file, in the expectation that I would add
> get|set|end functions for the hosts and networks files and some stage
> in the future.


A new file is fine.

The ChangeLog is, not quite right.  Not a big deal, but all you need to
do for netdb.cc is add "New file."

I didn't look at the sources too closely because I would not want to
be encumbered if you do not fill out an assignment but I will note that
putting a "Cygwin internal" comment in front of static functions isn't
adding any useful information.

Otherwise, from a cursory glance, it looks fine.  You will definitely
need to send in an assignment.

> 2002-11-19 Craig McGeachie <slapdau@yahoo.com.au>
> * netdb.cc (open_system_file, get_entire_line, get_alias_list)
> (open_services_file, parse_services_line, free_servent)
> (cygwin_setservent, cygwin_getservent, cygwin_endservent)
> (open_protocol_file, parse_protocol_line, free_protoent)
> (cygwin_setprotoent, cygwin_getprotoent, cygwin_endprotoent):
> Create a new file implementing the service and protocol
> enumeration functions in netdb.h.
> * Makeile.in (DLL_OFILES): Add reference to the new netdb.cc
> file.
> * cygwin.din : Add new aliased exports for service and
> protocol enumerations in netdb.cc.


cgf


