# Re: PATCH: Implementation of functions in netdb.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-18T17:24:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021119012449.GC17408@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021119012449.GC17408@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](13-26-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/18/17-24-00)

On Tue, Nov 19, 2002 at 02:15:50PM +1300, Craig McGeachie wrote:
> On 18 Nov 2002 at 17:57, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > Why?
>
>
> I am looking for house and job, and staying with a friend, who runs a 
> small LAN, shares the dialup connection, and is sufficiently paranoid 
> to run a firewall setup with mail and HTTP relaying (amongst others) - 
> no exceptions.


I'm not sure how you are going to be able to maintain this if you can't
build from CVS.  If a fix is needed, you'll need to be able to make it
to the CVS sources.  I appreciate the work you've put into this but I
do see a problem here.

> > but I will note that putting a "Cygwin internal" comment in front of
> > static functions isn't adding any useful information. 
>
>
> I need more comments anyway.  Just testing the water before I go all 
> out adding them.  I put "Cygwin internal" in because that is what I saw 
> in net.cc, and I thought it might be some sort of standard.


I never noticed those comments before.  They're gone now.

> > Otherwise, from a cursory glance, it looks fine.  You will definitely
> > need to send in an assignment.
>
>
> Will do.  It'll take maybe a week to arrive from New Zealand.  In the 
> meantime I have to tidy up the submission a bit.
>
> I've tried to compile the source for Cygwin 1.3.15-2 prior to putting 
> netdb.cc in, but I am having problems with fhandler_serial.cc.  With 
> the rewrite of fhandler_serial::ioctl, and the inclusion of 
> ddk/ntddser.h, I can no longer compile.  I have copy of the W2K DDK, 
> and tried pointing the compiler at the include directory there, but 
> unsurprisingly this doesn't work.  Is there a Cygwin version of the DDK 
> headers that I should use, in the same way that w32api provides a 
> Cygwin version of the Win32 SDK headers?


The sources in the release need the *CVS* version of w32api.  See?  Problems
already.

cgf


