# Re: Return the correct value for sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Erik Bray <erik.m.bray@gmail.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2016-11-17T12:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [CAOTD34by3aHdEMsNiuPiOw+LPyH85kjkAoWAMRyNx6e6ERPxdw@mail.gmail.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/CAOTD34by3aHdEMsNiuPiOw+LPyH85kjkAoWAMRyNx6e6ERPxdw@mail.gmail.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../15/13-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2016/11/17/12-09-00)

On Thu, Nov 17, 2016 at 10:54 AM, Corinna Vinschen
<corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> wrote:
> On Nov 16 15:51, Erik Bray wrote:
> > On Wed, Nov 16, 2016 at 3:01 PM, Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com> wrote:
> > > On 11/16/2016 07:56 AM, Erik Bray wrote:
> > >
> > > > > There is no good reason to use the non-POSIXy page size.  It doesn't
> > > > > help you in the least for any pagesize-related functionality.  Mmap
> > > > > as well as malloc and friends only work with _SC_PAGESIZE sized pages.
> > > > >
> > > > > It sounds as if you're looking for a solution for which there's no
> > > > > problem...
> > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > FWIW the background here is that I'm working on porting psutil [1] to
> > > > Cygwin, and trying to accomplish as much as *possible* through the
> > > > POSIX interfaces without having to fall back on the Windows API.  It's
> > > > actually a great exercise in what is and isn't possible with Cygwin :)
> > > >
> > > > In this case I was trying to compute process memory usage from
> > > > /proc/<pid>/statm which gives values in page counts, so I need the
> > > > page size (the actual page size) to compute the values in bytes.
> > >
> > >
> > > If /proc/<pid>/statm is reporting memory in multiples that are not the
> > > POSIX _SC_PAGESIZE, that is a bug in the statm file emulation that
> > > should be fixed there.
> >
> >
> > So then something like that attached (untested) patch should work,
> > though it made statm inconsistent with what is reported in
> > /proc/<pid>/status which reports memory in multiples of page size.  So
> > that has to be patched as well.
>
>
> Patches applied as obvious, thank you.
>
> > This of course leads to memory reporting that is inconsistent with
> > what Windows says.  But I guess if that's "normal" in Cygwin (for the
> > reasons stated by Corinna) then it's an acceptable trade-off?
>
>
> It is.  From the POSIX POV we have a 64K page size, from the Windows
> POV we have a bastard of 4K pages which can only be allocated in
> chunks of 16.  The latter simply doesn't fly well with POSIX
> assumptions.
>
> Since native Windows tools don't see the Cygwin internal assumptions,
> it doesn't matter, unless you mix Windows and Cygwin memory functions.
> Which, honestly, should only be done by Cygwin itself.


That works for me.  It makes things a bit tricky in my particular
case, but I admit it's an unusual one, and now that I'm aware of the
issue I can work with it.

Thanks for accepting the patch.

Erik


