# Re: [patch] cygcheck.cc update for cygpath()

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Dessent <brian@dessent.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-11T15:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [47D6A6E1.F8C89DFF@dessent.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/47D6A6E1.F8C89DFF@dessent.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/19-06-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/11/15-36-00)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:

> Given that Cygwin changes to support long path names, I don't really
> like to see new code still using MAX_PATH and Win32 Ansi functions
> in the utils dir.  I know that the Win32 cwd is always restricted to
> 259 chars.  However, there *is* a way to recognize the current working
> directory of the parent Cygwin application.


Here's an updated version of the patch.  It addresses the problem of
resolving symlink targets relative to the dir of the link without a
gratuitous Get/SetCurrentDirectory sequence by introducing
cygpath_rel().  It does not yet address the issue of modernizing the
symlink reading code, that will follow.

This patch still has two cases of MAX_PATH usage: one in a buffer that
is used for GetCurrentDirectory(), so I don't see how making it larger
there helps.  The second is in a static buffer for the dirname()
helper.  I could simply make this one larger, however, the context where
this dirname() is used is a filename that's used with CreateFile() so
until that is plumbed to use WCHAR and \\?\ I don't really think it
makes sense to use more than MAX_PATH.  I could update that instance of
CreateFile, but the thing that provides the filename passed here is
itself driven by GetFileAttributes(), so it would need to be updated
too... and so on.  It looks like a lot of work to go completely
longfile-clean here.

Brian


---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck_cygpath_update_2.patch](cygcheck_cygpath_update_2.patch) (text)
