# Re: Small Patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-13T10:32:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020613173232.GC26261@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020613173232.GC26261@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](10-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/13/10-32-00)

On Thu, Jun 13, 2002 at 01:05:42PM -0400, Nicholas Wourms wrote:
> This is a patch to a few files to update the copyright year and fix a 
> minor spelling error.


Thanks for the heads up.  IMO, comment changes fall into the "documentation"
category.  Changes to comments should be self-explanatory and should not
require a ChangeLog entry.  Opinions on this seem to vary.  However,
since I was the person checking this in, I opted to only include an
entry for yuor winver.rc change.  Since I didn't know what a "DBA" was I
changed the changelog entry for that.

I didn't make changes to every file that you included since some of them hadn't
been updated in 2002.  As far as I understand things, that means that we
shouldn't add a 2002 to the copyright.

Thanks for noticing this.  I just took a sweep through the sources a while ago
but I missed these files.

cgf

> ChangeLog:
> 2002-06-05  Nicholas S. Wourms <nwourms@netscape.net>
>
>        * shared_info.h: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * shortcut.c: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * shortcut.h: Correct spelling error and changed copyright to include
>        2002.
>        * smallprint.c: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * string.h: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * sync.h: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * syslog.cc: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * textmode.c: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * thread.h: Removed duplicate copyright entry.
>        * threaded_queue.h: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * wincap.h: Change copyright to include 2002.
>        * winver.rc (LegalCopyright): Change copyright to include RedHat's full
>        DBA name and to include 2002.



