# Re: addr2line [ Was: better stackdumps ]

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-03-20T18:38:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20080320183811.GA28830@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20080320183811.GA28830@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/00-24-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/03/20/18-38-00)

On Thu, Mar 20, 2008 at 11:23:05AM -0700, Brian Dessent wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Is it a big problem to fix addr2line to deal with .dbg files?
> >
> > I like your idea to add names to the stackdump especially because of
> > addr2line's brokenness.  But, actually, if addr2line would work with
> > .dbg files, there would be no reason to add this to the stackdump file.
>
>
> I absolutely agree that addr2line and/or dumper and/or gdb should be
> fixed, regardless of this patch.  I never meant to imply an either/or
> situation, and in fact I have debugged addr2line and here are the
> reasons it's broken:
>
> Firstly it's got nothing to do with .gnu_debuglink separate debug file,
> that part works just fine.  And secondly addr2line only loads the debug
> information for the module that you supply with -e, meaning that if you
> give "-e a.exe" it will look at symbols for a.exe, but it doesn't know
> that a.exe is dynamically linked to cygwin1.dll and it won't try to load
> symbols for cygwin1.dll.  This means to use it you need to know
> beforehand which module the address is in, which right there makes it
> kind of a pain to use for DLLs, and to me it rather dilutes the argument
> that you can just postprocess a stackdump file with it since you need
> more information than what's there.
>
> The next problem is that addr2line first tries to read STABS, and if
> that fails it falls back to DWARF-2.  I always build Cygwin and most
> other things with DWARF-2 debug symbols, mainly to make sure they work
> but really aren't we eventually hoping to get rid of STABS?  Anyway,
> this exposed another problem in that even if you build all of Newlib and
> Cygwin with -gdwarf-2 or -ggdb3, you still get a handful STABS symbols
> which are hardcoded in various assembler files:
>
> mktemp.cc:20:  asm (".stabs \"" msg "\",30,0,0,0\n\t" \
> mktemp.cc:21:  ".stabs \"_" #symbol "\",1,0,0,0\n");
>
> This is used to insert a linktime warning for using mktemp().
>
> sigfe.s:3:      .stabs  "_sigfe:F(0,1)",36,0,0,__sigfe
> sigfe.s:44:     .stabs  "_sigbe:F(0,1)",36,0,0,__sigbe
> sigfe.s:70:     .stabs  "sigreturn:F(0,1)",36,0,0,_sigreturn
> sigfe.s:108:    .stabs  "sigdelayed:F(0,1)",36,0,0,_sigdelayed
>
> This becomes a problem in that when bfd tries to find an address in the
> debug data it sees these minimal STABS and considers them a match --
> even though they are mostly irrelevant, they are present and since it's
> only got an address to go by it doesn't know that there is a much better
> match in the DWARF-2 data.  It just sees that it has gotten a (bad)
> match, so it doesn't bother looking in the DWARF-2 data.  And since
> those hand-coded .stabs above only give symbol name locations, not line
> number information, that means that regardless of what you ask addr2line
> it's going to return nothing because it only cares about line number
> info.
>
> I see two potential fixes here, the first being that Cygwin could be
> adapted to not hardcode .stabs but rather detect whether it's being
> built with DWARF-2 or STABS and use the appropriate kind.  The other fix
> is to teach BFD to try DWARF-2 first before STABS.  The attached patch
> does this, for the purposes of illustration -- I don't really claim this
> is correct.
>
> Once that is applied, here is the result of running the patched
> addr2line on the addresses in the stackdump of this testcase:
>
> $ for F in 610F74B1 610FDD3B 6110A310 610AA4A8 61006094; do
> /build/combined/binutils/.libs/addr2line.exe -e /bin/cygwin1.dll -f
> 0x$F; done
> ??
> ??:0
> _vfprintf_r
> /usr/src/sourceware/newlib/libc/stdio/vfprintf.c:1197
> printf
> /usr/src/sourceware/newlib/libc/stdio/printf.c:55
> ??
> ??:0
> _Z10dll_crt0_1Pv
> /usr/src/sourceware/winsup/cygwin/dcrt0.cc:930
>
> It now gets 3 out of 5 correct.  It got tripped up on _sigbe because
> again addr2line only cares about line number info, not general address
> information, and while there is information for the location of _sigbe,
> they don't contain line number info:
>
> (gdb) i ad _sigbe
> Symbol "_sigbe" is at 0x610aa4a8 in a file compiled without debugging.
>
> For the top frame (strlen), addr2line could not print anything because
> while there is location information, there is no line number
> information:
>
> (gdb) i li *0x610F74B1
> No line number information available for address 0x610f74b1 <strlen+17>
>
> This is due to the fact that strlen is implemented in newlib as
> libc/machine/i386/strlen.S which is a straight assembler version, and
> hence no line number debug records.
>
>
>
> *** To summarize thus far:
>
> 1. addr2line can be made to work again by one of a) dictating the use of
> STABS (boo!), b) modifying Cygwin to not emit hardcoded .stabs
> directives directly, c) modifying BFD to prefer DWARF-2 to STABS when
> reading COFF files.
>
> 2. addr2line requires the user to know beforehand which DLL a symbol is
> in, because it can't resolve runtime dependencies.
>
> 3. addr2line only cares about line number debug records, which means it
> will be incapable of representing many symbols.
>
> 4. As an implication of 3), addr2line is totally useless on DLLs/EXEs
> without debug information available.
>
>
>
> I think point number 4 is worth repeating: we as developers take for
> granted having debug symbols present, but most users do not have that
> luxury.  In that case addr2line becomes much less useful if it means
> first having to download the Cygwin source and build it, or know that
> it's possible to extract the .dbg file from the -src package.  (Although
> this won't work very well for use with gdb since the source files won't
> be present and even if they are the path to them in the .dbg file won't
> be correct.)  This all assumes that they even figured out that addr2line
> is part of binutils and installed that in the first place.
>
> And that is what I think makes this worthwhile, and worth putting in the
> DLL itself: the ability to get some useful info about the fault without
> requiring any developer tools or setup.  Even if the user has no idea
> how to use a debugger, they could still potentially paste the backtrace
> in an email to the list and list someone might be able to make sense of
> it.  How many times in the past has someone done this only to the
> response of "a plain stackdump file without symbols is useless as we
> don't know what those hex addresses correspond to in your particular set
> of DLLs"?  This would fix that.
>
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
>
> > There's still the issue of dealing with the separate signal stack.  That
> > makes stack dumps less than useful.
>
>
> Yes, it means there is one frame that says "sigbe" instead of the actual
> return location somewhere else.  I don't think that's impossible to fix
> either: the fault handler gets the context of the faulting thread so it
> can look up its tls area through %fs:4 and peek at the top of the signal
> stack for the value.  I will investigate if this is workable.
>
> But even if the return from signal wrapper frame is wrong, that doesn't
> make the output "less than useful".  Again, for reference, in the
> testcase it was:
>
> cygwin1.dll!_strlen+0x11
> cygwin1.dll!_fputc+0x34EB
> cygwin1.dll!_printf+0x30
> cygwin1.dll!_sigbe+0x0
> cygwin1.dll!_dll_crt0_1+0xC64
>
> Now, given, it's not perfect but it's not significantly worse than the
> best that addr2line can muster, and infinitely easier for the user to
> generate (i.e. zero effort.)  You can still tell that something called
> printf with a bogus string.


When I said "less than useful", I was referring specifically to the
current situation not your patch.

Or, in other words, I was conceding your point.

> > The bottom line is that I think that rather than modifying cygwin to
> > work around the limitations of the tools we should be fixing the tools.
>
>
> I understand that desire completely.  It's just that I think we can have
> both "free but possibly unreliable" info in the stackdump and "complete
> and correct but requiring a developer environment" from the dedicated
> debug tools.


How is this different from what you'd normally see in linux?  A core
dump from linux isn't particularly useful if you don't have symbols, is
it?

> > But, then, that puts the problem back on my shoulders as the gdb and
> > binutils maintainer.
>
>
> Don't worry, I have a keen interest in seeing all of this fixed so I
> will try to contribute time.
>
> Brian
> Index: coffgen.c
> ===================================================================
> RCS file: /cvs/src/src/bfd/coffgen.c,v
> retrieving revision 1.65


That's not a patch that I can approve, unfortunately.

cgf


