# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: exceptions: Fix AArch64 non-incyg signal handling

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Jon Turney <jon.turney@dronecode.org.uk> |
| **To** | Máte Dimand <mate.dimand@arm.com> |
| **Date** | 2026-06-17T12:07:44+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f09d13dd-49dc-440b-a818-819941010657@dronecode.org.uk](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f09d13dd-49dc-440b-a818-819941010657@dronecode.org.uk) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../12/08-02-26.thread.md#:~:text=2026/06/17/11-07-44)

On 12/06/2026 09:02, Máte Dimand wrote:
> This patch fixes crashes that occur when a signal interrupts sigfe or
> any non-cygwin function that does not preserve the LR register in its
> prologue/epilogue. This crash was discovered through the "run-heredoc"
> testcase in bash's testsuite, which caused bash to call "read"
> frequently, leading to a high chance of a signal interrupting sigfe.


Interesting.

It seems like it should be possible to construct a relatively simple 
test to demonstrate this.  Could you suggest what that test might look like?

> The "sigdelayed" function in gendef clobbers the LR register to return
> to the instruction where the thread was interrupted. Picking any other
> register for branching back would also clobber said register. Leaf
> functions are not guaranteed to be compiled with LR being preserved on
> the stack. The solution is to use RtlRestoreContext to restore all
> registers without needing to sacrifice any.
>
> The patch includes a C++ version of sigdelayed, which calls
> RtlRestoreContext at the end. The non-incyg signal handling codepath
> will change the thread's IP register to this new function instead of
> the original sigdelayed function written in assembly. Cygwin functions
> interrupted by signals still use the original function.


Hmmm... it seems like this is functionally incremental to a patch which 
hasn't been applied yet, but I can't work out which one.

> Signed-off-by: Máté Dimand <mate.dimand@arm.com>


Thanks.

> | git am
> warning: Patch sent with format=flowed; space at the end of lines might be lost.
> Applying: Cygwin: exceptions: Fix AArch64 non-incyg signal handling
> error: corrupt patch at line 11
> Patch failed at 0001 Cygwin: exceptions: Fix AArch64 non-incyg signal handling


I spent about an hour trying to salvage this, without success. Could I 
possibly trouble you to resend it as an attachment?


