# Re: Cygwin Filesystem Performance degradation 1.7.5 vs 1.7.7, and methods for improving performance

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2010-09-12T11:55:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20100912115537.GS16534@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20100912115537.GS16534@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/09-53-00.thread.md#:~:text=2010/09/12/11-55-00)

On Sep 12 13:41, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Sep 12 10:49, Yoni Londner wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > The caching-speed up is trivial:
> > We store the the FileFullDirectoryInformation fields, and if any of
> > them change - we re-read the file.
> >
> > Its not (in practical life) possible to change a file without
> > causing a modification on FileIndex/CreationTime/LastWriteTime/ChangeTime/EndOfFile/AllocationSize/FileAttributes/FileName/EaSize!
> >
> > From the MSDN we see the info we can get on a
> > FileFullDirectoryInformation request:
>
>
> We're already using FileBothDirectoryInformation and
> FileBothIdDirectoryInformation in readdir anyway.
>
> However, isn't that kind of a chicken/egg situation?  If you want to
> reuse the content of the FILE_BOTH{_ID}_DIRECTORY_INFORMATION structure
> from a previous call to readdir, you would have to call the
> corresponding NtQueryInformationFile call(s) to fetch the information
> from the file for comparision purposes.  When you fetched it anyway,
> there's no reason anymore to compare them, since you can use what
> you just fetched.  Where's the advantage?


The patch I still have in the loop uses the FILE_NETWORK_OPEN_INFORMATION
structure throughout, starting in symlink_info::check.  The content is
then stored in the path_conv structure and reused in
fhandler_disk_file::fstat_by_handle.  If the content of that structure
would be used as fingerprint, then we could perform readdir/stat caching
without requiring fstatat.  Something similar could be used to perform
ACL caching, so that a typical `ls -l foo' would not request the ACL
two or three times, but only once...


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


