# Re: [PATCH 0/3] Rewrite rlimits using OS job objects

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Mark Geisert <mark@maxrnd.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2026-02-18T01:40:10-08:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [ca2be7f8-7029-4c41-9a84-9eb957189c2a@maxrnd.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/ca2be7f8-7029-4c41-9a84-9eb957189c2a@maxrnd.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../01/26/11-13-42.thread.md#:~:text=2026/02/18/09-40-10)

Hi Corinna,

On 2/13/2026 11:30 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Ping?
>
> Anybody willing to review?


I'll take a shot at this.  First I read your fine explanation below and 
then spent a little time on MSDN reading up on OS job objects.

[...]
> On Jan 26 12:13, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > From: Corinna Vinschen <corinna@vinschen.de>
> >
> > The only implementation of an RLIMIT using Windows job objects,
> > RLIMIT_AS, doesn't really work as desired.  The way it uses nested jobs
> > fails if a soft limit is supposed to be raised again, thus working
> > rather like a hard limit only.
> >
> > This patch series takes a new approach.
> >
> > Considering two kinds of rlimits, soft and hard limits, and two kinds of
> > scopes, per-process and per-user.  Especially the per-user scope is kind
> > of tricky when implementing this as job objects.  For all practical
> > purposes, we can only include Cygwin processes and native subprocesses
> > into per-user jobs, and only Cygwin processes into per-process jobs.
> >
> > So here's what this patch is doing now:
> >
> > When a new Cygwin process tree is started, the root process of that tree
> > creates two per-user nested jobs, one for the hard limits, the next one
> > for the soft limits.  The per-user job objects are globally defined.
> > Processes can become job members across multiple Windows sessions.  If
> > another Cygwin process tree is started, the root process of that tree
> > finds that the per-user jobs already exist and just assignes itself to
> > both jobs.
> >
> > The same happens after a user context switch changing the real uid, i. e.,
> > in spawn/exec when calling CreateProcessAsUser.
> >
> > User limits are just set in those job objects across the board.
> >
> > Per-process limits are implemented by adding two more job objects for
> > hard and soft limit and assigning the process to these jobs.  These job
> > objects are session local and they are only created when the process
> > calls setrlimit.  They are setup so that child processes breakaway from
> > these jobs automatically.  The job objects are not inherited, but
> > recreated on fork/exec per PID for child processes.  This localizes the
> > rlimits to a process and changes to per-process rlimits in a parent
> > process don't affect the per-process limits in an already started child,
> > only in children forked or execed later on.
> >
> > I hope I explained this sufficiently.
> >
> > For the time being, we have exactly one per-process limit, RLIMIT_AS,
> > and exactly one new(!) per-user limit, RLIMIT_NPROC.
> >
> > Questions and comments welcome!
>


The implementation has plenty of comments and is quite straightforward 
to follow.  I think this was really well done.

I have only one minor nit: in patch 2/3 in new function 
__set_rlimit_nproc_single() there is an "else" followed by a comment 
about rounding down to page size.  The comment doesn't apply to this 
function; it seems to have gotten copied along with lines of code from a 
different function.

I applied these patches to my local Cygwin build tree and successfully 
built a new Cygwin DLL.  Normally I copy new-cygwin1.dll and libcygwin.a 
to the existing installed tree (with some renaming) to test things.  I 
attempted to test RLIMIT_AS and RLIMIT_NPROC with 'ulimit -v', 'ulimit 
-u' and a couple test programs but was unable to see any difference from 
prior Cygwin DLLs.  Do I need to install more of the new build to test 
the new code?  It wouldn't surprise me if I'm missing some steps in my 
testing setup.
HTH,

..mark


