# Re: [PATCH 4/5] Cygwin: add fast-path for posix_spawn(p)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-08T09:36:10+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aGzKagD6NIvkD-3f@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aGzKagD6NIvkD-3f@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-59-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/08/07-36-10)

On Jul  7 13:15, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Jul  7 12:16, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > All good points.  We should actually see what the Austin Group comes up
> > > > with and then we can reconsider.  In the meantime we stick to your current
> > > > implementation.  Would you mind to push it on top of main into a new
> > > > topic branch, i.e., something like
> > > >
> > > >   git checkout -b topic/posix_spawn main
> > > >
> > > > and push it?  If you're not aware of this, the "topic/" prefix is
> > > > required to allow force pushing to the branch.  It's some kind of
> > > > safety net from the gerrit macros activated for a couple of projects
> > > > on sware.
> > >
> > >
> > > Done.
> > > https://www.cygwin.com/cgit/newlib-cygwin/log/?h=topic%2Fposix_spawn
> > >
> > > This also includes the patch I recently sent, because I had done half of
> > > that while adding pgroup support.
> >
> >
> > Looks good.  However, shouldn't the hunk adding InterlockedCompareExchange
> > setting the pgid go into its own patch?  That looks more like a bugfix
> > to me...
>
>
> I don't think it's a bugfix - previously, this was where the pgid was
> initialized and it was done unconditionally.  Now that I want to set the
> pgid in child_info_spawn::worker, this needs to not overwrite that
> already-set pgid.  (This does not fix the issue where I see a pgid of 0 in
> a spawned process sometimes instead of what it should have inherited from
> the parent, which I assume is a race between the child running and the
> parent finishing up this initialization).


Ok, thanks for the explanation.

Corinna


