# Re: [PATCH 4/5] Cygwin: add fast-path for posix_spawn(p)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-07-08T09:46:01+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [aGzMuWoj4Jk6bDxQ@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/aGzMuWoj4Jk6bDxQ@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../06/26/23-59-04.thread.md#:~:text=2025/07/08/07-46-01)

On Jul  7 14:43, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Mon, 7 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > On Jul  4 15:59, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > On Fri, 4 Jul 2025, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> > > > On Fri, 4 Jul 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > I see what you mean.  The question of questions is if "as if" only
> > > > > covers the "performed exactly once" requirement, or if the "as if"
> > > > > really encompasses all three requirements, i.e.
> > > > >
> > > > > - as if the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once
> > > > >
> > > > > - exactly in the context of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new
> > > > >   process image)
> > > > >
> > > > > - exactly in the order in which the actions were added to the object
> > > > >
> > > > > in contrast to
> > > > >
> > > > > - as if the specified sequence of actions was performed exactly once
> > > > >
> > > > > - as if in the context of the spawned process (prior to execution of the new
> > > > >   process image)
> > > > >
> > > > > - as if in the order in which the actions were added to the object
> > > > >
> > > > > My understanding (as a non-native speaker) is that "as if" only
> > > > > covers the "performed exactly once" requirement.  Applying "as if"
> > > > > to the order requirement doesn't make much sense to me.  And applying "as if"
> > > > > implicitely to the second requirement, but not to the third, doesn't
> > > > > make much sense to me either.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > The "as if" performed exactly once doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me
> > > > either... To me, the only case where "as if" adds flexibility is the
> > > > context of the child process.
> > > >
> > > > > On top of that you'd have the problem that the man pages of
> > > > > osix_spawn_file_actions_addclose and posix_spawn_file_actions_addchdir
> > > > > contradict each other.  This, of course, is always possible.  Only an
> > > > > RFC to the Austin Group could clarify this.  Maybe we should really do
> > > > > that.
> > > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > https://austingroupbugs.net/view.php?id=1935
>
>
> I noticed a bit that you quoted that I hadn't noticed before
> additionally, when the new process image is executed, any
> ```
>   file descriptor (from this new set) which has its FD_CLOEXEC flag set
>   shall be closed (see posix_spawn()).
>
> ```
>
> The "from this new set" is not handled properly in my implementation, and
> I'm pretty sure not from the existing newlib implementation: I copied what
> it was doing, which was to clear the FD_SETFD flag after open.  That
> would be wrong, if faced with an addopen with the O_CLOEXEC flag set.
> This is obviously a stupid thing for a caller to do...


the POSIX posix_spawn man page has a 4 steps list how to process
the file actions with step 4: close all FD_CLOEXEC descriptors.

I wonder if that doesn't make some sense, e.g.

```
  addopen (&fact, 42, "somedir", O_CLOEXEC);
  addfchdir (42);

```

but then again, you could just add an addclose(42) and you would have the
same effect.

Well, *shrug*, as long as we can do it right.

But yeah, I don't see anywhere in the POSIX docs that the addopen
descriptors have the FD_CLOEXEC flag removed automatically.  They
are supposed to be closed instead, FWIW.

A fix to newlib's posix_spawn might make sense.


Corinna


