# Re: [PATCH v2] Cygwin: clipboard: Fix a bug in read().

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-12-08T00:24:14-07:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [25fe900a-f2d1-1688-d7af-95af7fc599b2@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/25fe900a-f2d1-1688-d7af-95af7fc599b2@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../07/14-00-06.thread.md#:~:text=2021/12/08/07-24-14)


On 2021-12-07 23:30, Mark Geisert wrote:
> Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2021-12-07 13:18, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > Am 07.12.2021 um 15:23 schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> > > > On Dec  7 23:00, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > > - Fix a bug in fhandler_dev_clipboard::read() that the second read
> > > > >    fails with 'Bad address'.
> > > > >
> > > > > Addresses:
> > > > >    https://cygwin.com/pipermail/cygwin/2021-December/250141.html
> > > > > ---
> > > > >   winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc | 2 +-
> > > > >   winsup/cygwin/release/3.3.4         | 6 ++++++
> > > > >   2 files changed, 7 insertions(+), 1 deletion(-)
> > > > >   create mode 100644 winsup/cygwin/release/3.3.4
> > > > >
> > > > > ```diff
> > > > > diff --git a/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc 
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > > b/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc
> > > > > index 0b87dd352..ae10228a7 100644
> > > > > ```diff
> > > > > --- a/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc
> > > > > +++ b/winsup/cygwin/fhandler_clipboard.cc
> > > > > @@ -229,7 +229,7 @@ fhandler_dev_clipboard::read (void *ptr, 
> > > > > ```
> > > > >
> > > > > size_t& len)
> > > > >         if (pos < (off_t) clipbuf->cb_size)
> > > > >       {
> > > > >         ret = (len > (clipbuf->cb_size - pos)) ? clipbuf->cb_size - 
> > > > > pos : len;
> > > > > -      memcpy (ptr, &clipbuf[1] + pos , ret);
> > > > > +      memcpy (ptr, (char *) &clipbuf[1] + pos, ret);
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I'm always cringing a bit when I see this kind of expression. 
> > > > Personally I think (ptr + offset) is easier to read than 
> > > > &ptr[offset], but of course that's just me. If you agree, would
> > > > it be ok to change the above to
> > > >
> > > >    (char *) (clipbuf + 1)
> > > >
> > > > while you're at it?  If you like the ampersand expression more,
> > > > it's ok, too, of course. Please push.
> > >
> > >
> > > In this specific case I think it's actually more confusing because of 
> > > the type mangling that's intended in the clipbuf.
> > > At quick glance, it looks a bit as if the following were meant:
> > >
> > >    (char *) clipbuf + 1
> > >
> > > I'd even make it clearer like
> > >
> > > ```
> > > +      memcpy (ptr, ((char *) &clipbuf[1]) + pos, ret);
> > > or even
> > > +      memcpy (ptr, ((char *) (&clipbuf[1])) + pos, ret);
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > If the intent is to address:
> >
> >      clipbuf + pos + 1
> >
> > use either that or:
> >
> >      &clipbuf[pos + 1]
> >
> > to avoid obscuring the intent,
> > and add comments to make it clearer!
>
>
> Boy am I kicking myself for screwing up the original here and opening 
> this can of worms.  Brian, you'd be correct if clipbuf was (char *) like 
> anything-buf often is.  But here it's a struct defining the initial part 
> of a dynamic char buffer.
>
> So my original
>      &clipbuf[1]
> to mean "just after the defining struct" was OK.  But the code needed a 
> ptr to some char offset after that and
>      &clipbuf[1] + pos
> was wrong.  Casting the left term to (char *) would fix it.  But I like 
> Corinna's choice of
>      (char *) (clipbuf + 1)
> to be most elegant and clear of all.  Now enclose that in parens and 
> append the char offset so the new expression is
>      ((char *) (clipbuf + 1)) + pos


In this context, (char *)clipbuf + sizeof clipbuf would actually be 
clearer. Or hide the expression in a cb_text(clipbuf[,pos?]) macro.

You could make the format and intent clear and obvious by appending 
cb_text[0|1|...] (some C++ compatible form) into cygcb_t in 
sys/clipboard.h.

> and all should be golden.  I don't think extra commentary is needed
> in code. (I think.)

Where else put commentary?
In this case it should be mandatory, as this is an address hack to 
access the clipboard text, and there were questions about that expression.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.
[Data in binary units and prefixes, physical quantities in SI.]


