# Re: [1.7] rename/renameat error

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Eric Blake <ebb9@byu.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-09-23T13:37:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [4ABA248E.70303@byu.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/4ABA248E.70303@byu.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](12-59-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/09/23/13-37-00)

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

According to Corinna Vinschen on 9/23/2009 7:30 AM:
> Urgh.  I stumbled over the need_directory flag only two days ago.  while
> debugging the symlink errno problem you reported on the list.  CGF is my
> witness.  It's the reason I made the trailing slash change in symlink
> rather than in path_conv::check.  It's quite tricky to keep all possible
> cases working.  Have you tested this change with the entire coreutils
> testsuite?  It seems to be quite thorough.


Still running that, so I'll postpone any commits until further testing
completes.

> This part of the patch looks good to me.  I'm just sweating some
> blood over the need_directory change in path_conv::check due to my
> own experience.  Does it really not break something in the path
> handling?


For the last component, I haven't encountered anything it broke, but
several things (like link("file","missing/")) that were fixed.  But I'm
not completely positive how symlinks to multi-level directories will
behave, so I'm testing it further, and may need yet another tweak.

- --
Don't work too hard, make some time for fun as well!

Eric Blake             ebb9@byu.net
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Cygwin)
Comment: Public key at home.comcast.net/~ericblake/eblake.gpg
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org/

iEYEARECAAYFAkq6JI4ACgkQ84KuGfSFAYClyQCeLVjN1DEZKzq2L/+bIU1uj9v1
ZmUAoImr72LAHtcZdNdGjwekBxlhgNlh
=NcT8
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


