# Re: [Patch] setup.exe - no skip/keep option buggyness

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Keener <bkeener@thesoftwaresource.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.Com, Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-11-12T18:11:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20011112181100.Mof4XS1h3T-2LxG6-0GprkuqpUlvi2yLgocBTQDzBFE@z](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20011112181100.Mof4XS1h3T-2LxG6-0GprkuqpUlvi2yLgocBTQDzBFE@z) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/15-28-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/11/12/18-11-00)

Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Tue, Nov 13, 2001 at 09:33:50AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > I'm happy for this to be debated to death for the HEAD branch though.
> > I'm not convinced that having a separate skip/keep for the user makes
> > sense, but then I'm not convinced that a spin control is best their
> > either..
>
>
> FWIW, I agree on both counts.
>
> cgf
>


Just to throw my two cents worth in - I kind of like the keep/skip and the spin 
control.  The keep/skip makes perfect sense to me - I have a package listed in 
the installed column of choose and I select keep - I want to keep that version 
installed.  I have nothing displayed in the installed column - I select skip - 
I still want nothing installed, in my way of thinking.  I would not select 
"keep" if I had nothing of that package installed anyways.  I am not saying you 
should ever have both options, that is a definite no-no but one or the other in 
the right cases makes seems right to me.  I would/could select "skip" if I did 
have the package installed and it would make sense but I think if something is 
installed then "keep" really makes better sense.  It is still all semantics - 
ultimately behind the scenes they accomplish the same thing, but we do need to 
think of the clarity for the novice.

As to the spin control, I like it - but everyone elses discontent with it makes 
me ask - what do you envision in its place - I might like that better.

bk



