# Re: More passwd/group patches

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-11-24T06:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20021124092120.00829650@mail.attbi.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20021124092120.00829650@mail.attbi.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/06-31-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/24/06-23-00)

At 02:04 PM 11/24/2002 +0100, you wrote:

Hi Corinna,

First off I am going to look at the Win98 home directory problem 
reported on the list, if you have not fixed it already.

> Hi Pierre,
>
> a few comments:
>
> On Fri, Nov 22, 2002 at 09:54:32AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
>
> A formatting nit:


OK, note taken.
>
> I don't like the idea that these DENY bits are still set when the acl is
> returned to the application.  The underlying Solaris acl implementation 
> doesn't know about these bits.  They should be removed before returning
> the acl to the application.  Otherwise you're using bits which are not
> defined in acl.h.


That had crossed my mind. In fact acl.h does not declare any values for
the a_perm field. Cygwin is simply reproducing the bits in the 
user, group and other fields. I searched the web and saw that other
versions of unix did not even agree on the type of the a_perm field (Cygwin
makes it mode_t) and that the now-defunct standard proposal was silent on the 
issue. So it seemed to me that all that mattered was consistency with
the implementation of the routines getfacl, setfacl, etc... 
I have no problem with masking them off. Defining specific bits in acl.h 
would be nice in theory, but in absence of a standard perhaps not useful.
>
>
> You're copying the group bits to the mask?  Didn't you suggest to set
> it to rwx?  I think you're right.  It would be better to move this line
> to the initialization of the first lacl members and change it to
>

Yes, but not knowing the reason for the current behavior I didn't want
to change it. It doesn't hurt anything.
>
> Same here, shouldn't the DEF_CLASS_OBJ entry have rwx, too?
>

Same answer!

Pierre


