# Re: More passwd/group patches

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-11-24T08:47:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20021124174709.E1398@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20021124174709.E1398@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/06-31-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/11/24/08-47-00)

On Sun, Nov 24, 2002 at 11:28:17AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 05:08 PM 11/24/2002 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > The appropriate changes to sec_acl.cc would collide with your patch
> > so I'd like to ask you if you want me to make the necessary changes
> > to comply with Solaris first and then to send a revised patch, or
> > if you want to incorporate these changes into your patch, too?
>
>
> Corinna,
>
> Between the two proposals I prefer the first (you make the change first).
> The don't like the second much, because there is a possibility of 
> misunderstanding.
> There is also a third possibility: apply the patch and then fix it to
> match solaris. That may minimize the overall amount of work and 
> reviewing.


Ok, I'm going to apply your patch and then rework it as I think fit.

> I have been working on the home directory problem but can't reproduce 
> it. 
> I don't see anything wrong with his passwd file. Do you?


There isn't.  It looks like the files created by mkpasswd/mkgroup.

I'm pretty sure it's related to setting myself->gid to the new
DEFAULT_GID 401 in internal_getlogin.  It's perhaps a problem of the
execution order.  However, I didn't look into the code so far since
I'm busy with the sec_acl stuff.

Corinna


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


