# Re: UTF-8 Cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | SUZUKI Hisao <suzuki611@oki.com> |
| **To** | Dave Korn <dave.korn@artimi.com>, cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-07-07T00:41:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [44ADADD0.8000803@oki.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/44ADADD0.8000803@oki.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/12-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/07/07/00-41-00)

Dave Korn wrote:
> On 06 July 2006 07:28, SUZUKI Hisao wrote:
>
>
> > Sorry, but I cannot access to CVS server because of firewall.  So the
> > patch file was made from the cygwin-1.5.20-1-src.
>
>
>   Here it is, blindly applied to current CVS and then regenerated.  I've
> checked that it still builds and I've installed and started running with it.
> I'll report any quirks I find, but I'm not likely to be using the UTF-8
> features; I'll just look out for any possible breakage of existing stuff.


Thank you!

>   Just a couple of comments that I noticed straight away: there's lots of
> commented out blocks that should be removed if they aren't going to be used,
> and there's a worrying number of XXX tags that suggest some work remains to be
> done....?


The tags had meant so in the early stage of development
circa 1 March indeed.  During testing and debugging, they
have been remained and used as the marks where I touched
the source specifically.  Generally, I have replaced every
occurrence of ANSI-WIN32 API that operates on a file name
with macros in winsup.h

And a few tags means some work remains yet really.  They
are in miscfuncs.cc, where I put codes that replace ANSI-
WIN32 API generally:

u_mbstowcs:  combining form conversion needs work on
    combining grave, acute etc. especially.

GetCommandLineU:  a large fixed-size dynamic buffer is
```
    used.  It just works fine for most cases, and falls
    back gracefully for ASCII input.  It operates well
    in 99% cases.  For the rest cases, it needs work
    (in such cases, you will see wrong conversion of
    non-ASCII characters for now).

```

I'm sorry for confusion.

> ```
>     cheers,
>       DaveK
> ```
>


Regards,
-- SUZUKI Hisao


