# Re: UTF-8 Cygwin

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-no-personal-reply-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2006-07-07T02:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20060707024219.GA8827@trixie.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20060707024219.GA8827@trixie.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../06/12-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2006/07/07/02-42-00)

On Fri, Jul 07, 2006 at 09:41:52AM +0900, SUZUKI Hisao wrote:
> Dave Korn wrote:
> > On 06 July 2006 07:28, SUZUKI Hisao wrote:
> >
> >
> > > Sorry, but I cannot access to CVS server because of firewall.  So the
> > > patch file was made from the cygwin-1.5.20-1-src.
> >
> >
> >  Here it is, blindly applied to current CVS and then regenerated.  I've
> > checked that it still builds and I've installed and started running with 
> > it.
> > I'll report any quirks I find, but I'm not likely to be using the UTF-8
> > features; I'll just look out for any possible breakage of existing stuff.
>
>
> Thank you!
>
> > Just a couple of comments that I noticed straight away: there's lots of
> > commented out blocks that should be removed if they aren't going to be
> > used, and there's a worrying number of XXX tags that suggest some work
> > remains to be done....?
>
>
> The tags had meant so in the early stage of development circa 1 March
> indeed.  During testing and debugging, they have been remained and used
> as the marks where I touched the source specifically.  Generally, I
> have replaced every occurrence of ANSI-WIN32 API that operates on a
> file name with macros in winsup.h


I hate to say this but I really don't like doing things this way.  If we
need to use wide character support then it should just be a wholesale
replacement, not a bunch of wrappers around existing functions.

Corinna and I have talked about using the FooW functions for a long time.
There are some fundamental changes required to incorporate these into
cygwin but I don't think that wrappers around everything are the way to
go.

cgf


