# Re: fhandler_console

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-02T05:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010302143512.S5481@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010302143512.S5481@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/16/07-38-00-2.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/02/05-35-00)

Doh, wrong mailing list...

On Fri, Mar 02, 2001 at 03:53:21PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> Hi!
>
> Friday, 02 March, 2001 Corinna Vinschen cygwin-patches@cygwin.com wrote:
>
> CV> the problem disappeared after a full rebuild of Cygwin today.
> CV> I fear I have created the problem by myself for some reason.
> CV> The rebuild solved the problem immediately. Is it possible
> CV> that you always need a full rebuild after there's a change
> CV> in class hierarchies? Your change has moved some class members
> CV> in the fhandler class hierarchy, so...
>
> hmm.  i  don't  think  so.  unless  something  goes  wrong  with  your
> dependency   files.  i'm  doing test builds without doing 'make clean'
> beforehand.  i did complete rebuild almost half year ago. and yet i do
> change  class  members   from  time  to  time.  after fhandler_console
> patch   there   was   a  lot of files being rebuilt (all that  include
> fhandler.h).   The   only   reason  of  broken build i can imagine  is
> that  patching and building is done on different machines, with source
> code   shared   over   network,  and  their  clocks  wasn't  properly
> synchronized. 


No everything was patched and build locally.

Anyway, it's ok. Now you can create NEW EXCITING patches instead
of debugging old boring patches :-)

Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


