# Re: tty-slave read() patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | Christopher Faylor <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-02T19:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010302224708.A18666@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010302224708.A18666@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../02/28/08-27-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/02/19-48-00)

Are you going to check this in, Egor?  It looks like it might help
with some tty code that I'm debugging currently.

cgf

On Wed, Feb 28, 2001 at 09:00:02PM -0500, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Wed, Feb 28, 2001 at 11:53:10PM +0300, Egor Duda wrote:
> > CF>    Won't  this  cause  problems when communicating with non-cygwin
> > CF> applications?
> >
> > as far as i can understand from source, if slave have pipe's handle to
> > get  input  from  master, it can assume that master is cygwin process.
> > that  means  that  opening input_mutex from slave's side is safe, this
> > mutex  (end  event) should already exist. if cygwin master opens  pipe
> > and  communicate   though  it  with  non-cygwin  child, it will freely
> > acquire and release input mutex, since noone else hold it.
> >
> > the  only  possible  problem is that master can have two children, one
> > cygwin  and  one non-cygwin, and they both are trying to read. in this
> > case  it's  possible that cygwin child will see input_available_event,
> > but  won't  see  any  data in pipe, since non-cygwin child had already
> > eaten it. but i think it was the same in old code, too.
> >
> > i've  tested  it  in  either  tty  or  notty  mode and with non-cygwin
> > programs in local console and via ssh.
>
>
> So, a non-cygwin program running under ssh, via a pty, will work correctly?
> In that case, check her in, with much thanks.
>
> One minor nit, however.  Please adhere to the coding standards of the
> code your changing.  You seem to have added at least one or two
> cases of:
>
> 	foo ( bar );
>
> rather than
>
> 	foo (bar);
>
> It's also:
>
> 	if (!foo)
>
> not
> 	if (! foo)
>
> (I don't know if you've done this, but I do find it, from time to time,
> in cygwin code.)
>
> Thanks again.  It sounds like this could speed up pty/tty handling in
> cygwin.
>
> Will this even get rid of the cvs/ssh hang problem on Windows 95?
>
> cgf


-- 
cgf@cygnus.com                        Red Hat, Inc.
http://sources.redhat.com/            http://www.redhat.com/


