# Re: df and ls for root directories on Win9X

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Pierre A. Humblet <Pierre.Humblet@ieee.org> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-05-26T16:10:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3.0.5.32.20030526121109.0080ca30@incoming.verizon.net](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3.0.5.32.20030526121109.0080ca30@incoming.verizon.net) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/22-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/05/26/16-10-00)

At 11:54 AM 5/26/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Sun, May 25, 2003 at 05:54:32PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > At 12:48 PM 5/25/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > > Um.  I am still reviewing the fstat_by_name stuff.  I will be making
> > > changes to this.
> > >
> >
> > I hope you find a more elegant way to determine when it's a root directory.
>
>
> The previous code obviously went out of its way to handle a special
> case.  It was not a "bug" that it filled out an array and changed "c:\"
> to "c:\*".


Except that it didn't work. FindFirstFile( subdir/*) returns first a handle
to subdir and then to all files in subdir. That's the behavior the code
was relying on.
However FindFirstFile(rootdir/*) only returns handles to the files in 
rootdir. That caused aliasing as my original e-mail illustrated.
Also the original code was not noticing root dirs with UNC paths.

> I'm away from my computer now so I can't easily check to see what you
> did but it looks like you made the root directory always assume today's
> date.


No, Dec 31 1969. That's the same on my WinNT (which calls fstat_by_handle).

> I also had a problem with this:
> +  else if (pc->isdir () && strlen (*pc) <= strlen (pc->root_dir ()))
>
> Isn't the strlen check just a more expensive and less clear way of doing
> a strcmp?  i.e.,
>
> +  else if (pc->isdir () && strcmp (*pc, pc->root_dir () == 0)


That's why I refered to "more elegant" above. The strcmp works for
c:\ but not for UNC paths. An "isprefix()" function would be just what we
need. 
The pc->isdir () is unnecessary, I only put it there to reduce the cost
of the strlen(). Another idea is to handle that special case after 
FindFirstFile has failed with winerror 2.

Pierre


