# Re: df and ls for root directories on Win9X

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-05-26T18:39:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20030526183920.GC16861@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20030526183920.GC16861@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../23/22-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/05/26/18-39-00)

On Mon, May 26, 2003 at 12:11:09PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 11:54 AM 5/26/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > On Sun, May 25, 2003 at 05:54:32PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > At 12:48 PM 5/25/2003 -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > >
> > > > Um.  I am still reviewing the fstat_by_name stuff.  I will be making
> > > > changes to this.
> > > >
> > >
> > > I hope you find a more elegant way to determine when it's a root directory.
> >
> >
> > The previous code obviously went out of its way to handle a special
> > case.  It was not a "bug" that it filled out an array and changed "c:\"
> > to "c:\*".
>
>
> Except that it didn't work. FindFirstFile( subdir/*) returns first a handle
> to subdir and then to all files in subdir. That's the behavior the code
> was relying on.


The code was relying on the fact that *something* was returned.  It wasn't
relying on any other behavior than that.  It probably should have cleared
out the size though, at least.

> However FindFirstFile(rootdir/*) only returns handles to the files in 
> rootdir. That caused aliasing as my original e-mail illustrated.
> Also the original code was not noticing root dirs with UNC paths.


Yep.  There should have been a FIXME comment to that effect.

> > I'm away from my computer now so I can't easily check to see what you
> > did but it looks like you made the root directory always assume today's
> > date.
>
>
> No, Dec 31 1969. That's the same on my WinNT (which calls fstat_by_handle).


Ugh.

> > I also had a problem with this:
> > +  else if (pc->isdir () && strlen (*pc) <= strlen (pc->root_dir ()))
> >
> > Isn't the strlen check just a more expensive and less clear way of doing
> > a strcmp?  i.e.,
> >
> > +  else if (pc->isdir () && strcmp (*pc, pc->root_dir () == 0)
>
>
> That's why I refered to "more elegant" above. The strcmp works for
> c:\ but not for UNC paths. An "isprefix()" function would be just what we
> need. 


Actually, I meant strncmp but you'd end up doing more work with strncmp.

We have an isprefix function already but it also needs a length field
and so would be no faster.

So, nevermind, the patch is fine.

cgf


