# Re: [Patch] Avoid duplicate names in /proc/registry (which may 	crash   find)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2008-12-07T19:04:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [493C1DF7.6090905@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/493C1DF7.6090905@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/20-50-00.thread.md#:~:text=2008/12/07/19-04-00)

Hi Corinna,

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> ...
> > With the attached patch, a duplicate name "foo" is handled as follows:
> >
> > - readdir() returns the key as "foo" and the value as "foo%val".
> > - If the name is "foo%val", stat() and open() consider only the value 
> > "foo".
> >
> > This keeps the names 'as is' if possible and allows access to the (very 
> > few) entries with duplicate names. The "%val" is at least somewhat 
> > self-explanatory.
> >
>
>
> Cool.  Can you please send a ChangeLog entry as well?
>
>


Of course:

2008-12-07  Christian Franke  <franke@computer.org>

	* fhandler_registry.cc (encode_regname): Add Parameter add_val.
	Append "%val" if add_val is set.
	(decode_regname): Remove trailing "%val". Change returncode
	accordingly.
	(__DIR_hash): New class.
	(d_hash): New macro.
	(key_exists): New function.
	(fhandler_registry::exists): Remove encode of registry name
	before path compare, decode file part of path instead.
	Skip checks for keys if trailing "%val" detected.
	(fhandler_registry::fstat): Change check of return
	value of decode_regname ().
	(fhandler_registry::readdir): Allocate __DIR_hash.
	Record key names in hash table. Append "%val" if key with
	same name exists. Fix error handling of encode_regname ().
	Set dirent.d_type.
	(fhandler_registry::closedir): Delete __DIR_hash.
	(fhandler_registry::open): Don't open key if trailing "%val"
	detected by decode_regname ().
	(open_key): Ditto.



Christian


