# Re: Cygwin strptime() is missing "%s" which strftime() has

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2017-08-02T08:09:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20170724093110.GA5104@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20170724093110.GA5104@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../07/24/04-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2017/08/02/08-09-00)

Hi Brian,

On Jul 23 22:07, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2017-07-23 20:09, Lavrentiev, Anton (NIH/NLM/NCBI) [C] wrote:
> > > But that's just scanning a decimal integer to time_t.
> >
> >
> > It's not a question of whether I can or can't convert a string into an integer, rather it's a question about portability of code that uses %s for both functions and expects it to work unchanged in the Cygwin environment.  Also, strptime() was designed to be a reversal to strftime() (from the man-pages: the  strptime() function is the converse function to strftime(3)) so both are supposed to "understand" the same basic set of formats.  Because of Cygwin's strptime() missing "%s", the following also does not work even from command line:
> >
> > $ date +"%s" | strptime "%s"
>
>
> Attached diff for proposed strptime %s and %F support.
> Let me know if you would prefer a different approach before I submit a git
> format-patch.


Approach looks good, so please send the patch to the newlib mailing list
with a nice log message.

In fact, just send patches like these immediately in the right format to
the right list.  Chances are good that the patch is taken without further
ado and you skip the part where you have to send the patch twice :)

In this case I have a nit, but this should be discussed on the right
mailing list so all affected parties can chime in.  Hint: strtoimax is
not available on all platforms yet (patches still in limbo)...


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Maintainer                 cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
