# Re: YACP

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-06-23T00:16:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.CYG.4.44.0206221151001.1308-200000@iocc.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.CYG.4.44.0206221151001.1308-200000@iocc.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](00-16-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/23/00-16-00)

> > It would be fine with me to leave the '--type TYPE' syntax as an
> > alternative to --unix, --windows, --mixed, but having the --type mixed
> > as the only way to get a forward-slash Windows path seemed counter-
> > intuitive to me. Also --type dos to me should mean short-name as well.
> > So should I put together another patch to do this as well?
>
>
> Actually, I think that specifying the output via --type makes things a
> little more structured.  We can't go back now, though, because users
> would complain.  It looks like I should have added a '--type unix' if
> I was going to be consistent, though.
>
> I dunno.  I don't feel really strongly about this, though.  If no one
> agrees then I don't mind changing it.


That does sound like a better idea. This patch is therefore better.
It fleshes out the --type option so that one can specify: 'dos', 'mixed',
'unix', or 'windows'. The 'dos' type includes short-name. While I was
at it, I added a --dos option which is the same as --windows --short-name.
It's too bad about the feature bloat, but having both should satisfy both
structure and users.

I feel good about changing the default action to --unix since before
-u or -w was required in every case, so the only thing it would change
(to users) is if before they were always typing something like
'cygpath c:' and getting errors now they will get UNIXy path output.

I also corrected an apparent bug in the long_options that prevented
"close", "file" and "type" from working, even though -c, -f, and -t
did. I'm not intimate with getopt but it looks like the flag part of
long_options struct should be set to NULL if you're using the optarg.

ChangeLog:

2002-06-22  Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com>

	* cygpath.cc (long_options): Add "dos" and "mixed", correct
	"close", "file" and "type" to use NULL flag.
	(usage): Clean up usage output (more), accomodate new options.
	(main): Add --dos and --mixed options; accomodate all output
	forms in --type. Make UNIXy output default.



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygpath.cc-patch](cygpath.cc-patch) (text)
