# Re: Resubmission of cygwin_daemon patch.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Conrad Scott <Conrad.Scott@dsl.pipex.com> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@syncretize.net> |
| **Date** | 2002-06-23T04:20:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [066301c21a9c$3534fa80$6132bc3e@BABEL](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/066301c21a9c$3534fa80$6132bc3e@BABEL) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](02-33-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/06/23/04-20-00)

"Robert Collins" <robert.collins@syncretize.net> wrote:
> There seems to be a lot of code duplication - definitions copied to

make
> private versions, that sort of thing. Can you elaborate on why? I
> strongly prefer to only have one instance of such things to prevent

skew
> occuring.


Rob, as I was having a bath I realised what you are might be referring
to. There are definitions of various internal shm structs and classes
in <sys/shm.h> that are no longer used anywhere (as they are broken:
shm.cc needed to see both class shmid_ds and struct shmid_ds). I've
removed these from that file on the cygwin_daemon branch (and so were
removed in the first version of the patch I submitted) but in
excluding the ipcs-related changes, I removed *all* changes to the
<sys/shm.h> and <sys/ipc.h> files (just me being lazy, sorry about
that). So, when these files are included, the __INSIDE_CYGWIN__ flags
are munged to make sure that those internal type definitions are never
visible. (I think the real ones are now in cygserver_shm.h but I'm out
of time to check right now.) So, you can just expunge those types from
<sys/shm.h> or leave them. They'll disappear as soon as I submit the
next patch, which will include ipcs(8) stuff (RSN etc.).

I hope that's the only such duplication in the patches. Please tell me
of any others.

Cheers,

// Conrad




