# Re: [PATCH] Extended mouse coordinates

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2012-04-25T08:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20120425082257.GY25385@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20120425082257.GY25385@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../22/19-08-00.thread.md#:~:text=2012/04/25/08-23-00)

On Apr 24 23:58, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> Am 24.04.2012 22:22, schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> > On Apr 24 22:00, Thomas Wolff wrote:
> > > Am 24.04.2012 21:47, schrieb Corinna Vinschen:
> > > > On Apr 24 21:45, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > That was exactly the patch I applied.  I only chnaged the formatting
> > > > > and changed sprintf to  __small_sprintf.
> > > >
> > > > ...and as far as quoting goes, the above is the ChangeLog you provided
> > > > with your updated patch.
> > >
> > > Sh.. I see. My deep apologies, I must have been confused. Here is
> > > the actual updated patch which should be used instead.
> > > Sorry for the trouble.
> > > Thomas
> > > 2012-04-20  Thomas Wolff<towo@towo.net>
> > >
> > > 	* fhandler.h (class dev_console): Flags for extended mouse modes.
> > > 	* fhandler_console.cc: Supporting mouse coordinates greater than 222.
> > > 	(fhandler_console::read) Implemented extended mouse modes
> > > 	1015 (urxvt, mintty, xterm), 1006 (xterm), and 1005 (xterm, mintty).
> > > 	Also: two { wrap formatting consistency fixes.
> > > 	(fhandler_console::mouse_aware) Removed limitation of not sending
> > > 	anything at exceeded coordinates; sending 0 byte instead (xterm).
> > > 	(fhandler_console::char_command) Initialization of enhanced
> > > 	mouse reporting modes.
> > >
> >
> > Please recreate the patch against current CVS.  And please use
> > __small_sprintf instead of sprintf.
> >
>
> Here's the missing patch and changelog. Sorry again for previous mix-up.
> Thomas


Patch applied and rigged into 1.7.14.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


