# Re: [RFA]: some speed up changes

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris Faylor <cgf@cygnus.com> |
| **To** | cygpatch <cygwin-patches@sourceware.cygnus.com> |
| **Date** | 2000-04-23T17:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20000423205219.B6243@cygnus.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20000423205219.B6243@cygnus.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](03-00-00.thread.md#:~:text=2000/04/23/17-52-00)

On Mon, Apr 24, 2000 at 12:58:41AM +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Chris Faylor wrote:
> > I did a little more checking on this.  The setting of PATH_EXEC *is*
> > used by other things.  It's tested via the path_conv::isexec method
> > in fhandler.cc.  It short-circuits a file open and a check for '#!'.
>
>
> That's right, I checked that a week ago, too. But if you check it
> further you will see that it's only used to set the execable flag in
> class fhandler which itself is used only once:
> It's used to set the x bit if and only if get_file_attribute fails!


Ok.  I see what you're saying now.  The other reason for the
get_file_attribute (I hate to be defending this in any way since it's
not my code) is, I think, to be able to set the "symlink" flag so that
we don't have to rely on the system attribute.  But that is not
happening in symlink_info::check.  Maybe I accidentally deleted it at
some point.

So, you're right.  Go ahead and delete this.

> Now the question: Why should get_file_attribute be used to get a flag
> that is used only if get_file_attribute fails?!? IMHO that is paradox!
>
> > Also, rather than test for os_being_run == winNT, couldn't you be
> > using the has_acls() method?
>
>
> Maybe but that would disallow further usage of the file handle in
> ntea.cc. What's about a test for allow_ntsec resp. allow_ntea?


Yeah.  I think I like that better.  Are these flags only used in the
case of has_acls () && allow_ntea?

cgf


