# Re: [PATCH 1/3 v3] Cygwin: tzcode resync: basics

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-06-30T12:18:57+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [20200630101857.GB3499@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200630101857.GB3499@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../05/22/09-32-50.thread.md#:~:text=2020/06/30/10-18-57)

On Jun 10 15:53, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2020-06-09 22:37, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > On Tue, 9 Jun 2020, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > On 2020-05-26 02:27, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > On May 26 00:09, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > > > On May 22 02:32, Mark Geisert wrote:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > On May 25 14:06, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > > The tzcode package needs updated to get fixes into zic and zdump.
> > > Also tzdata was maintained by Yaakov.
> > >
> > > Corinna, would you like to keep tzcode co-maintained with Yaakov?
> > >
> > > Or Mark, would you like to ITA tzcode and/or tzdata to keep it in sync with the
> > > base code?
> > >
> > > Or would you like me to ITA tzcode and/or tzdata?
> > > I currently check tzdb weekly in cron to download updates for my own interests.
> > > I could add cygport builds to that job.
> >
> >
> > This "tzcode" patch I did was a one-shot task just getting some time zone
> > handling code within the Cygwin DLL up to date.  I don't know if there's any
> > overlap between what I worked on and the tzcode+tzdata packages.  Eh, just the
> > internal binary copy of a particular tzdata file which should be kept up to
> > date: /usr/share/zoneinfo/posixrules.  Dunno how often that changes though.
> >
> > It's fine with me for you to take over both tzcode+tzdata if nobody else
> > objects.  Sounds like you have a regular schedule for looking over updates which
> > is more than I have :-).
>
>
> Thanks Mark,
>
> I'll wait to see if we hear from Corinna or ITA if no response soon.


You don't have to ask me to ITA packages, really :)


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


