# RE: patch for audio recording with /dev/dsp

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gerd Spalink <Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de> |
| **To** | 'Corinna Vinschen' <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **Date** | 2004-01-23T20:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [01C3E1F6.8D472400.Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/01C3E1F6.8D472400.Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](20-19-00.thread.md#:~:text=2004/01/23/20-19-00)

Hi Corinna,

Yes, I'm on the cygwin-patches and cygwin-developers mailing lists (and I also peek into the cygwin mailing
list now and then at cygwin.com), so I read your message.

Regarding the copyright assignment, I haven't sent yet the part that my employer should sign,
but I'm working on it. My personal part should be at RedHat already.

Gerd

-----Original Message-----
From:	Corinna Vinschen [SMTP:cygwin-patches@cygwin.com]
Sent:	Freitag, 23. Januar 2004 11:12
To:	Gerd.Spalink@t-online.de
Cc:	cygwin-patches@cygwin.com
Subject:	Re: patch for audio recording with /dev/dsp

Hi Gerd,

I'm not sure if you read this.  Are you going to send us a copyright
assignment according to http://cygwin.com/contrib.html ?

Corinna

On Dec  8 00:35, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> On Mon, Dec 08, 2003 at 03:37:19AM +0100, Gerd Spalink wrote:
> > Hi,
> >
> > This patch changes the device /dev/dsp so that audio recording works.
> > I have tested it with
> > cp /dev/dsp test.wav         (stop by hitting ctrl-C)
> > and subsequent playback with
> > cp test.wav /dev/dsp
> >
> > I also tested successfully with bplay of the gramofile package
> > (with some hangups that I link to the terminal handling of this software).
> >
> > I am now considering implementing /dev/mixer ...
> >
> > Any suggestions?
>
>
> Thanks for the patch but have you checked out http://cygwin.com/contrib.html ?
> AFAIK, we don't have an assignment on file with you so we can't
> incorporate any substantial patches from you into cygwin.
>
> cgf


-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


