# Re: [PATCH] fhandler_tty deadlock patch + console + eof

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | Steve O <bub@io.com> |
| **Date** | 2002-10-23T06:52:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0210230902150.8025-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0210230902150.8025-100000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](06-52-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/10/23/06-52-00)

Steve,

On Wed, 23 Oct 2002, Steve O wrote:

> On Tue, Oct 22, 2002 at 02:06:17PM -0400, Igor Pechtchanski wrote:
> > One more thing I noticed when using this patch is that pasting now seems
> > really slow, as if it's sending one character at a time...  Did you turn
> > off the buffering somewhere by any chance?
>
>
> Not that I know of.  In large pastes, say larger than 2k, the buffers
> fill up and the app stops being able to write the paste buffer in large
> chunks.  This could contribute to a character-at-a-time feel.


Yeah, that is probably it.  The pastes that exhibit this behavior are the
ones that used to freeze xterms, so the size is quite large.  I just
verified that small pastes are fine.

> While trying to reproduce this I noticed that pasting a selection with
> tab characters into bash causes delays due to bash trying to do command
> completion.  Also note that bash bypasses termios processing and so
> a paste into bash will result in a series of 1 character writes to the
> pipe.  The pipe seems to have a 4k buffer, but depending on the timing
> bash may get to read each character out individually.


Nah, not in my case - I'm pasting into vi...  But good to know about
bash, thanks.

> Though, I could of broke something.  If you want to persue this, you're
> welcome to send me a test case off-list, and I'll see if anything unusual
> is happening.


I think the above quite adequately explained this.  If you think it's
potentially fixable, let me know if you still want a test case.  And
thanks again for the patch.
	Igor
-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"Water molecules expand as they grow warmer" (C) Popular Science, Oct'02, p.51


