# Re: patch for cygpath

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Gerrit P. Haase <gp@familiehaase.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@Cygwin.Com |
| **Date** | 2001-08-12T01:13:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3B76571D.8114.3051E237@localhost](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3B76571D.8114.3051E237@localhost) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../08/00-51-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/08/12/01-13-00)

Christopher Faylor schrieb am 2001-08-11, 21:41:

> On Sat, Aug 11, 2001 at 06:59:57PM +0200, Gerrit P. Haase wrote:
> > Christopher Faylor schrieb am 2001-08-09, 10:45:
> >
> > > On Thu, Aug 09, 2001 at 01:57:53PM +0200, Gerrit P. Haase wrote:
> > > > BTW, instead of discussing, which lasts some time, it could have been 
> > > > approved and committed in the same time.
> > >
> > >
> > > Well, this is a pretty assinine comment.  I'm trying to avoid code bloat.
> >
> >
> > asinine  =  idiotisch; dumm
> >
> > Thank you cgf.
>
>
> You're perfectly welcome.  If you are going to offer gratuitous
> criticisms you can expect my opinions of your criticisms to be
> forthcoming.
>
> You actually made some good points in your response. They were good enough
> that you didn't need to slam anyone with your asinine observation.


Yes, i'm sorry.

> > > I don't like to add "features" to programs if they have no real value
> > > and slow tools down.
> > >
> > > I really don't need to have my procedures criticized.  Thanks.
> >
> >
> > Big Boss, never makes a mistake, no criticism neccesary...
>
>
> I certainly stated my case too strongly here.  I'm certainly open to
> criticism if I can discern a modicum of conscious thought behind the
> criticism.  Sadly, that was lacking in this case.
>
> Would you rather that I just make unilateral decisions rather than
> discuss things?  My first impulse was to just ignore the patch so
> that would not have been to your advantage.
>
> Or would you prefer that if I see a patch that troubles me in some way,
> I should just check it in automatically?  Maybe that is not a big deal
> since patches are so few and far between and cygwin suffers from a
> surfeit of opinions over deeds.


AFAIK now the cygpath 'problem' is a 'bug' of windows and in this case 
you acted completely correct.

> Since I had no strong opinion (or actually a slightly negative opinion),
> I asked for votes on whether the patch was worthwhile.  So far the votes
> are 2-1 in favor of the patch.  It looks likely that it will be included.
>
> If it isn't being included fast enough to suit you then...  Gee, I guess
> I just don't care.


O.k.

gph


-- 
=^..^=


