# Re: [1.7] Case-sensitive programs exist but cannot both be run

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-10-16T10:02:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20091016100210.GC31638@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20091016100210.GC31638@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](08-46-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/10/16/10-02-00)

On Oct 16 11:13, Peter Rosin wrote:
> Den 2009-10-16 10:46 skrev Yaakov (Cygwin/X):
> > On 16/10/2009 03:03, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Oct 15 23:01, Yaakov S wrote:
> > > > It appears that two EXEs can coexist (with the registry setting) but 
> > > > only
> > > > whichever one was so named first will be run:
> > > > [...]
> > > > Bug?  Limitation?  If it hurts, don't do that?
> > >
> > >
> > > Limitation.  While we can do everything with files using native NT
> > > calls, we can't use NtCreateProcess to create new processes.  We
> > > have to use CreateProcess, and there's no flag available which defines
> > > case-sensitivity for this call, unfortunately.
> >
> >
> > In that case, let's document it.  Patch attached.
>
>
> *snip*
>
> > +trying to run either of them will always run whichever was so named 
> > first.  
>
>
> I suspect that you don't necessarily get the one which was named first. My
> guess is that you'll get whichever file happening to appear first in the
> unsorted directory list. Seems bad to make "promises" in the docs in this
> case...


Something along the lines of "there's no way to determine which one of
it will be started since starting applications is still case-insensitive
due to WIndows limitations" might make sense.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Project Co-Leader          cygwin AT cygwin DOT com
Red Hat


