# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Michael Haubenwallner <michael.haubenwallner@ssi-schaefer.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-04-01T14:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [fe627231-6717-c702-b97b-d66cdc9409a3@ssi-schaefer.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/fe627231-6717-c702-b97b-d66cdc9409a3@ssi-schaefer.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/04/01/14-28-00)

Hi Corinna,

On 3/28/19 9:30 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Mar 28 12:48, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > On 3/28/19 10:58 AM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Mar 28 10:17, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > As it is not some other dll being loaded at the colliding adress: any
> > > > idea how to find out _what_ is allocated there (in the forked child),
> > > > to find out whether we can reserve these areas even more early?
> > >
> > >
> > > I'm not sure what addresses you're talking about ATM.  The addresses in
> > > the 0x4:00000000 - 0x6:00000000 range?
> >
> >
> > No, I'm thinking about the lower address that collides after relocation,
> > if there is some cygwin allocated object we may allocate later...
> >
> > > These are the interesting ones.
> > > The relocation to some random low address should only occur if there's
> > > a collision in this range.
> >
> >
> > This should be easier to find out (by inspecting the loaded dlls).
>
>
> can you please collect the base addresses of all DLLs generated during
> the build, plus their size and make a sorted list?  It would be
> interesting to know if the hash algorithm in ld is actually as bad
> as I conjecture.


Please find attached the output of rebase -i for the dlls after bootstrap
on Cygwin 3.0.4, each built with ld from binutils-2.31.1.

>
> If we can improve on the distribution within the 8 Gigs area by changing
> ld's address generation(*), we may improve situations like these without
> too much hassle.  As always, not a foolproof way out, but heck, 8 Gigs
> is a lot of space for a couple 100 DLLs.


Feels like I need some Cygwin rebase step in Gentoo Prefix anyway, as there
are ~250 dlls right after bootstrap - without any application yet.

Thanks!
/haubi/


---

**Attachments:**

- [rebase-info.txt.xz](rebase-info.txt.xz) (application)
