# Re: [PATCH RFC] fork: reduce chances for "address space is already occupied" errors

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-04-01T20:46:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [2ef6e42d-43d7-ffa1-05f6-0601282aa17a@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/2ef6e42d-43d7-ffa1-05f6-0601282aa17a@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/26/18-25-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/04/01/20-46-00)

On 2019-04-01 10:31, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
>
> On 4/1/19 5:56 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Apr  1 16:56, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Apr  1 16:28, Michael Haubenwallner wrote:
> > > > On 3/28/19 9:30 PM, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > can you please collect the base addresses of all DLLs generated during
> > > > > the build, plus their size and make a sorted list?  It would be
> > > > > interesting to know if the hash algorithm in ld is actually as bad
> > > > > as I conjecture.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Please find attached the output of rebase -i for the dlls after bootstrap
> > > > on Cygwin 3.0.4, each built with ld from binutils-2.31.1.
> > >
> >
> >
> > Oh, wait.  That's not what I was looking for.  The addresses are ok, but
> > the paths *must* be the ones at the time the DLLs have been created,
> > because that's what ld uses when creating the image base addresses.
>
>
> Maybe I can provide that one as well.
>
> > The
> > addresses combined with the installation paths don't make sense anymore.
> >
> > Apart from that, since you seem to be installing the DLLs anyway, can't
> > you combine every crucial point during installation with a rebase?
>
>
> This is what I'm after now, but I may need to introduce something like
> additional readonly databases plus some --unregister option to rebase.


Check my questions and Achim's answers in the other subthread for existing ways
to deal with your issues that are only semi-documented.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


