# Re: [PATCH] Fix type inconsistencies in stdint.h

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf-use-the-mailinglist-please@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2009-04-04T03:36:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20090404033545.GA3386@ednor.casa.cgf.cx](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20090404033545.GA3386@ednor.casa.cgf.cx) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](01-23-00.thread.md#:~:text=2009/04/04/03-36-00)

On Sat, Apr 04, 2009 at 02:33:11AM +0100, Dave Korn wrote:
>
> ```
>    Hi team,
>
>  Upstream GCC just gained the ability to know all about the stdint.h types
> ```
>
> and limits internally.  If you're interested in the background, see
>
>    http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc/2009-04/msg00000.html
>
> and thread for further reading.
>
>  I've submitted the necessary info for the cygwin GCC backend, and now the
> associated testcases show up a few bugs in our stdint.h declarations.
> Basically:-
>
> - uint32_t is "unsigned int", but UINT32_MAX is an unsigned long int constant
> (denoted by the 'UL' suffix).
> - int_least32_t is "long", where INT_LEAST32_MIN and INT_LEAST32_MAX are plain
> (unsuffixed) int constants.
> - int_fast16_t and int_fast32_t are both "long", where INT_FAST16/32_MIN/MAX
> are all plain (unsuffixed) ints.
> - intptr_t is "long" but INTPTR_MIN and INTPTR_MAX lack the "L" suffix and so
> are just ints.
> - size_t is "unsigned int" but the SIZE_MAX constant is unsigned long.
>
>  This is bad because if the value of one of these MIN or MAX limits is not of
> the correct integer type matching the integer type it is used in conjunction
> with, there will be an implicit cast operation anytime you assign the
> wrongly-typed value to a variable of the type for which it is supposed to be
> the limit.
>
>  The attached patch fixes all these by adjusting only the suffix letters.  OK
> for head?
>
> winsup/cygwin/ChangeLog
>
> 	* include/stdint.h (UINT32_MAX, INT_LEAST32_MIN, INT_LEAST32_MAX,
> 	INT_FAST16_MIN, INT_FAST32_MIN, INT_FAST16_MAX, INT_FAST32_MAX,
> 	INTPTR_MIN, INTPTR_MAX, SIZE_MAX):  Fix integer constant suffixes.


Many of the changes introduce divergence from Linux.  Why is that?

cgf


