# Re: initgroups

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-09-13T01:42:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020913104233.C1574@cygbert.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020913104233.C1574@cygbert.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/18-35-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/09/13/01-42-00)

On Wed, Sep 11, 2002 at 08:42:41PM -0400, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> At 04:12 PM 9/11/2002 +0200, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > >  why is the largest possible gid value forbidden? 
> >
> >
> > It's not forbidden in the first place, it has a special meaning
> > when used as parameter to chown(), see
> > http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007904975/functions/chown.html
>
>
> OK, thanks Corinna. However we also give it special meaning (noop) 
> in setegid () (and similarly for uid in seteuid). 
> http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007904975/functions/setegid.html
> gives us no such choice. We can either 1) accept it (if the user has been
> foolish enough to put it in /etc/group),
> or 2) return EINVAL if we decide that our implementation does not 
> support it outright (even if it's in /etc/group).
>
> If we decide on 1) shouldn't we remove calls to {ug}id16to(ug}id32 from
> passwd.cc, grp.cc and syscalls.cc, EXCEPT in the various cases of chown 
> (i.e. simply do as getgrgid (), which doesn't call gid16togid32)?
> Also, we shouldn't rely on ILLEGAL_UID in dcrt0. 
> If we decide on 2), shouldn't we enforce it everywhere? One possibility is
> not to read in passwd and group entries with "illegal" {ug}id values.


After looking into this I think 2) is the way to go.  We can't support
that uid/gid for apparent reasons so we should take the approach to
invalidate it everywhere, yes.  

However, that would mean that we have to treat both values as
illegal, ILLEGAL_[UG]ID and ILLEGAL_[UG]ID16.  This looks a little
bit weird to me...

Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen                  Please, send mails regarding Cygwin to
Cygwin Developer                                mailto:cygwin@cygwin.com
Red Hat, Inc.


