# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: sched_setscheduler: accept SCHED_OTHER, SCHED_FIFO and SCHED_RR

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-12-03T14:13:58+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z08EFs_LTnjKL6xr@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z08EFs_LTnjKL6xr@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/29/17-48-29.thread.md#:~:text=2024/12/03/13-13-58)

On Dec  3 10:20, Christian Franke wrote:
> Brian Inglis wrote:
> > On 2024-12-02 11:28, ASSI wrote:
> > > Christian Franke writes:
> > > > ```
> > > > +    nice value   sched_priority Windows priority class
> > > > +     12...19      1....6          IDLE_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > +      4...11      7...12          BELOW_NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > +     -4....3     13...18          NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > > +    -12...-5     19...24          ABOVE_NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > +    -13..-19     25...30          HIGH_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > +         -20     31...32          REALTIME_PRIORITY_CLASS
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > That mapping looks odd… care to explain why the number of nice values
> > > and sched_priorities doesn't match up for each priority class? 39
> > > possible values for one can't match to 32 for the other of course, but
> > > which ones are skipped and why?
> >
> >
> > See also miscfuncs.cc which maps nice<->winprio with a 40 entry table,
> > and cygwin-doc proc(5) or cygwin-ug-net/proc.html which explains the
> > mapping to scheduler priorities and policies.
>
>
> No *_PRIORITY_CLASS is mentioned in current newlib-cygwin/winsup/doc/*.
>
>
> >
> > Also relevant may be man-pages-posix sched.h(0p), man-pages-linux
> > sched(7) and proc_pid_stat(5).
> >
> > You may also wish to consider whether SCHED_SPORADIC should be somewhat
> > supported for POSIX compatibility, and SCHED_IDLE, SCHED_BATCH,
> > SCHED_DEADLINE for Linux compatibility?
>
>
> SCHED_IDLE: Ignore nice value and set IDLE_PRIORITY_CLASS ?


Would make sense, I guess.

> SCHED_BATCH: Reduced mapping, e.g. nice=0 -> BELOW_NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS ?


Sounds good.

> SCHED_SPORADIC, SCHED_DEADLINE: ?


We can't model SCHED_DEADLINE in Windows.

> The current newlib/libc/include/sys/sched.h only defines SCHED_OTHER,
> SCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR and SCHED_SPORADIC. The latter is guarded by
> _POSIX_SPORADIC_SERVER which is only set for RTEMS (#ifdef __rtems__) in
> features.h.


SCHED_SPORADIC is a bit of a problem.  It requires extension of the
sched_param struct with values we're not able to handle.

Also, SCHED_SPORADIC doesn't exist in Linux either, so why bother.


Corinna


