# Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | J. Johnston <jjohnstn@cygnus.com> |
| **To** | Robert Collins <robert.collins@itdomain.com.au> |
| **Date** | 2001-03-23T11:35:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [3ABBA589.74CED71C@cygnus.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/3ABBA589.74CED71C@cygnus.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/01-11-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/03/23/11-35-00)

Robert Collins wrote:
>
> Hi,
>     Chris Faylor has asked to bring a discussion we've been having
> cygwin-developers to the newlib list. The topic it pthread type
> definitions && pthread defines.
>
> I've include a couple of extracts below, but the short summary and
> history is
> I'm attempting to extend the current cygwin pthreads support, going from
> specifications at www.opengroup.org. As part of that work I wanted to
> move the cygwin pthread*_t type definitions to sys/types.h which the
> standard says is appropriate.
>
> When I did that I noticed that
> a) (minor) newlib has pthread DEFINES in sys/types - the specs I'm
> reading suggest they should be in pthreads.h and


Yes, the PTHREAD_xxx defines should be in pthread.h.  Only the _t types should be in sys/types.h.

> b) (major) new has typedef'd the pthread*_t types as structs, not
> pointers. IMO having theortically opaque types defined as structs is
> dangerous - both because you cannot extend the capabilities in the
> future without breaking the ABI and because it encourages userland
> programs to alter the contents directly rather than via the API.
>
> It should be safe from an ABI point of view to convert from structs to
> void* pointers, as long as dependent system libraries are able to use a
> different typedef at compile time (in cygwin I have a #ifndef
> __INSIDE_CYGWIN__ \ userland types \#else \system types\#endif). However
> if any user programs have 'peeked' inside the structures, they will need
> to be rebuilt when their system library gets updated..
>


Again, I agree with you.

Joel, you are being cc'd  as these changes modify code added for RTEMS.  Any problems with making
these changes (i.e. does the RTEMS stuff have to be protected for the time-being)?

-- Jeff J.

> Rob
>
> On Thu, Mar 22, 2001 at 08:16:57AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > Well we can't turn on _POSIX_THREADS. And I don't think we should...
> > a) I've read enough of the spec now to say fairly confidently that
> > cygwin will not be conformant for a very long time. (Setting the stack
> > address, setting a guard buffer for the stack...). So turning on
> > _POSIX_THREADS will be misleading. Autoconf feature tests find all the
> > functions quite well.
> > b) the newlib _POSIX_THREADS types are broken IMO. They are reasonable
> > structures and so forth but for userland includes they should be opaque
> > to the user, and not a struct but rather a struct pointer to allow
> > behind the scenes changes without breaking the ABI. (better yet, a void
> > * for real opaqueness).
> > c) the newlib includes have things in weird places- the pthreads
> > #defines should be in pthreads.h not sys/types.
>
>
> Ok.  I didn't know this.  I wonder how much should be handled by fixing
> newlib, though?  If there are changes that make things more conformant
> then they should go in newlib.  I am sure that the newlib maintainers
> would like to fix things if they're out of whack.
>
> cgf
>
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: "Christopher Faylor" <cgf@redhat.com>
> To: <cygwin-patches@cygwin.com>
> Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2001 9:30 AM
> Subject: Re: cygwin/newlib types patchs
>
> > On Thu, Mar 22, 2001 at 09:23:19AM +1100, Robert Collins wrote:
> > > On the technical side the newlib maintainers are facing the same
> >
>
> problem
> > > I did with pthreads (Changing at this date may break ABI and or
> >
>
> existing
> > > #if code. Secondly they may have users who have used the fact that
> >
>
> the
> > > userland includes allowed access to the internal elements of the *_t
> > > types. (Which is a bad thing). I understand newlib exists because
> > > proprietary software can be linked to it when it's sold under the
> >
>
> second
> > > licence... so the maintainers may well have contractual issues crop
> >
>
> up
> > > if they start fixing these things up.
> >
> >
> > I think that all of the pthreads stuff was added by external
>
> contributors,
> > actually.
> >
> > Would you mind raising this issue on the newlib mailing list?  If no
>
> one
> > seems interested then we'll pursue a cygwin-only solution.
> >
> > cgf
> >
>



