# [PATCH] Package content search and listing functionality for cygcheck

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Igor Pechtchanski <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-08-14T19:30:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [Pine.GSO.4.44.0308141521250.13708-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Pine.GSO.4.44.0308141521250.13708-200000@slinky.cs.nyu.edu) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](19-30-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/08/14/19-30-00)

This patch adds the functionality to cygcheck to list (using the "-l" or
"--list-package" flag) the contents of and search (using the "-f" or
"--find-package" flag and passing the absolute paths to the files) for
files in the *installed* packages.  Please test this and feel free to give
feedback.  I've done some refactoring of the code in dump_setup.cc as
well.  There's still some code duplication, but that can be addressed in a
later patch if it bothers people too much.
	Igor
==============================================================================
ChangeLog:
2003-08-14  Igor Pechtchanski  <pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu>

	* cygcheck.cc (find_package,list_package): New global
	variables.
	(usage): Add "--find-package" and "--list-package" options,
	reformat output.
	(longopts, opts): Add "--find-package" and "--list-package"
	options.
	(main): Process the "--find-package" and "--list-package"
	flags.  Add new semantic checks.  Add calls to find_package()
	and list_package().
	* dump_setup.cc: Fix header comment.
	(match_argv): Change return type to int to distinguish
	between real matches and default ones.
	(open_package_list): New static function.
	(check_package_files): Factor out opening the package list
	file into open_package_list().
	(get_packages): New static function.
	(dump_setup): Factor out getting a list of packages into
	get_packages().
	(package_list, package_find): New global functions.

-- 
```
				http://cs.nyu.edu/~pechtcha/
      |\      _,,,---,,_		pechtcha@cs.nyu.edu
```

ZZZzz /,`.-'`'    -.  ;-;;,_		igor@watson.ibm.com
```
     |,4-  ) )-,_. ,\ (  `'-'		Igor Pechtchanski, Ph.D.
    '---''(_/--'  `-'\_) fL	a.k.a JaguaR-R-R-r-r-r-.-.-.  Meow!

```

"I have since come to realize that being between your mentor and his route
to the bathroom is a major career booster."  -- Patrick Naughton



---

**Attachments:**

- [cygcheck-list-packages.patch](cygcheck-list-packages.patch) (text)
