# Re: _ANONYMOUS_STRUCT (again)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@Cygwin.Com |
| **Date** | 2001-09-10T15:19:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20010910181940.A17830@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20010910181940.A17830@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../09/21-48-00.thread.md#:~:text=2001/09/10/15-19-00)

On Mon, Sep 10, 2001 at 04:44:07PM -0400, Earnie Boyd wrote:
>
>
> Christopher Faylor wrote:
> >
> > On Mon, Sep 10, 2001 at 02:30:15PM -0400, Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > On Mon, Sep 10, 2001 at 02:17:16PM -0400, Earnie Boyd wrote:
> > > > Christopher Faylor wrote:
> > > > > > I'm not wild about using something called NONAMELESSUNION to control
> > > > > > whether a nameless *structure* is defined but I guess it's ok.
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Never the less, the MSDN will have the control on how this is
> > > > implemented if it applies in this case.  Or is NONAMELESSUNION something
> > > > we've made up along the way?
> > >
> > >
> > > I just checked.
> > >
> > > It's a Microsoft invention and the use it the same way, so I guess
> > > we're "good company".
> >
> >
> > Are you going to check this in, Earnie?  It seems like it should go into
> > the (mythical?) 1.3.3 cygwin release.
> >
>
>
> Are you asking if I'm going to check in the change that you made or are
> you asking if I'm going to check in a change that is a reverse of what
> you did?  In first case it's already checked in, in the second case I'll
> let Danny make the change to the MinGW CVS and I'll merge in the changes
> into Cygwin.


I'm asking if you are going to check in the patch that was in the
original email.

I'm not asking you to revert my change so that I am no longer able to
build things on my machine.

I only have to tangentially worry about this for 1.3.3 since I'm not going
to be releasing w32api but I do need to be able to build cygwin.

So, nevermind.  I'll just stick with my local include for building
things.  I guess there is no hurry.

cgf

cgf


