# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Add code to restore console mode on close.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-01-14T16:31:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20200114163103.GY5858@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20200114163103.GY5858@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../02/13-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2020/01/14/16-31-00)

On Jan 14 10:37, Takashi Yano wrote:
> Hi Corinna, welcome back!
>
> On Mon, 13 Jan 2020 17:25:53 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Jan  2 22:17, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > - The console with 24bit color support has a problem that console
> > > ```
> > >   mode is changed if cygwin process is executed in cmd.exe which
> > >   started in cygwin shell. For example, cursor keys become not
> > >   working if bash -> cmd -> true are executed in this order.
> > >   This patch fixes the issue.
> > > ```
> > >
> >
> >
> > Is that supposed to work for deeper call trees as well?
>
>
> I think so.
>
> > I'm asking because I tried something like
> >
> >   bash -> cmd -> bash -> cmd 
> >
> > and it turned out that the cursor keys don't work at all in the second
> > cmd, while they work fine again in the first cmd when returning to it.
>
>
> The cursor key itsself works in this case. You can edit command line
> by left and right arrow keys. However, history does not work in this
> situation. This seems to be because the history buffers are exhausted.
>
> The same happens if you try
>
> cmd -> cmd -> cmd -> cmd -> ........ -> cmd
>
> in command prompt without cygwin.
>
> I confirmed that history works in this situation if NumberOfHistoryBuffers
> is increased using SetConsoleHistoryInfo(). The default value of
> NumberOfHistoryBuffers seems to be 4 in windows 10.
>
> The history buffer seems to be consumed by any process which attached to
> the same console. Therefore, the same happens by
>
> bash -> bash -> cmd


Ok, interesting.  I wasn't aware of that.

I pushed all of your outstanding patches now and I'll create a
developer snapshot in a bit.


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
