# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: Add /dev/disk/by-id symlinks

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2023-11-03T12:06:43+01:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [c1c6f1f9-82cf-d7c9-b04b-b533a3585238@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/c1c6f1f9-82cf-d7c9-b04b-b533a3585238@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../09/25/11-57-51.thread.md#:~:text=2023/11/03/11-06-43)

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Nov  3 10:55, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > Hi Christian,
> >
> > On Oct  3 14:39, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > This is a first attempt to partly emulate the Linux directory
> > > > /dev/disk/by-id. Useful to make sure the correct device is accessed in
> > > > conjunction with dd, ddrescue, fdisk, ....
> > >
> > > Attached is the second attempt.
> > >
> > >
> > > > The additional '*-partN' links to partitions are not yet included.
> > >
> > > These are now included.
> > >
> > >
> > > > This only works properly if Win32 path '\\.\PhysicalDriveN' is always
> > > > trivially mapped to NT path '\Device\HarddiskN\Partition0'.
> > > > IOCTL_STORAGE_QUERY_PROPERTY with a handle from NtOpenFile(.,
> > > > READ_CONTROL,...) instead of CreateFile(., 0, ...) did not work with all
> > > > drivers. With stornvme.sys, it fails with permission denied. Perhaps
> > > > other permission bits are required for NtOpenFile(). Thanks for any info
> > > > regarding this.
> > >
> > > According to NtQueryObject(., ObjectBasicInformation, ...), using
> > > NtOpenFile(., MAXIMUM_ALLOWED, ...) without admin rights sets GrantedAccess
> > > to 0x001200a0 (FILE_EXECUTE|FILE_READ_ATTRIBUTES|READ_CONTROL|SYNCHRONIZE).
> > > For some unknown reason, NVMe drives behind stornvme.sys additionally
> > > require SYNCHRONIZE to use IOCTL_STORAGE_QUERY_PROPERTY. Possibly a harmless
> > > bug in the access check somewhere in the NVMe stack.
> > >
> > > The disk scanning from the first patch has been reworked based on code
> > > borrowed from proc.cc:format_proc_partitions(). For the longer term, it may
> > > make sense to provide one flexible scanning function for /dev/sdXN,
> > > /proc/partitions and /proc/disk/by-id.
> >
> > I applied your patch locally (patch looks pretty well, btw) but found
>


Thanks!
Meantime I found 4 missing NtClose() in the main loop of 
get_by_id_table(). Will be fixed in the next version of the patch.


> > that /dev/disk/by-id is empty, even when running with admin rights.
>


Admin rights should not be necessary for IOCTL_STORAGE_QUERY_PROPERTY.


> >
> > I ran this on Windows 11 and Windows 2K19 in a QEMU/KVM VM.  A
> > \Device\Harddisk0\Partition0 symlink pointing to \Device\Harddisk0\DR0
> > exists in both cases.  I straced it, and found the following debug
> > output:
> >
> >    1015 1155432 [main] ls 361 stordesc_to_id_name: Harddisk0\Partition0: 'Red_Hat' 'VirtIO' '' (ignored)
> >
> > Is that really desired?
>


Yes - if IOCTL_STORAGE_QUERY_PROPERTY{... PropertyStandardQuery} does 
not return a serial number (''), the device is intentionally ignored.


> Thread 1 "ls" hit Breakpoint 2, stordesc_to_id_name (upath=0x7ffffc500,
> ```
>      ioctl_buf=0x10e0720 "(", name=...)
>      at /home/corinna/src/cygwin/vanilla/winsup/cygwin/fhandler/dev_disk.cc:44
> ```
>
> 44        const STORAGE_DEVICE_DESCRIPTOR *desc =
> (gdb) n
> 47        int vendor_len = 0, product_len = 0, serial_len = 0;
> (gdb)
> 48        if (desc->VendorIdOffset)
> (gdb)
> 49          vendor_len = sanitize_id_string (ioctl_buf + desc->VendorIdOffset);
> (gdb)
> 50        if (desc->ProductIdOffset)
> (gdb)
> 51          product_len = sanitize_id_string (ioctl_buf + desc->ProductIdOffset);
> (gdb)
> 52        if (desc->SerialNumberOffset)
> (gdb)
> 53          serial_len = sanitize_id_string (ioctl_buf + desc->SerialNumberOffset);


If possibly, please check whether (desc->SerialNumberOffset) is 0 or 
(ioctl_buf + desc->SerialNumberOffset) points to '\0' or a string of 
spaces. If no, there is possibly something wrong in sanitize_id_string().


> (gdb)
> 55        bool valid = (4 <= vendor_len + product_len && 4 <= serial_len
> (gdb) p vendor_len
> $1 = 7
> (gdb) p product_len
> $2 = 6
> (gdb) p serial_len
> $3 = 0
> (gdb) n
> [New Thread 3944.0x1958]
> 56                      && (20 + vendor_len + 1 + product_len + 1 + serial_len + 10)
> (gdb) n
> 55        bool valid = (4 <= vendor_len + product_len && 4 <= serial_len
> (gdb)
> 55        bool valid = (4 <= vendor_len + product_len && 4 <= serial_len
> (gdb)
> 58        debug_printf ("%S: '%s' '%s' '%s'%s", upath,
> (gdb) p valid
> $4 = false


-- 
Regards,
Christian



