# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: utils: chattr: Improve option parsing.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christian Franke <Christian.Franke@t-online.de> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2021-05-20T21:48:39+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [f4bff7ef-17c1-357e-0630-0d7d587e467f@t-online.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/f4bff7ef-17c1-357e-0630-0d7d587e467f@t-online.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../19/15-46-31.thread.md#:~:text=2021/05/20/19-48-39)

Hi Corinna,

Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> Hi Christian,
>
> On May 20 12:01, Christian Franke wrote:
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On May 19 17:46, Christian Franke wrote:
> > > > ...
> > > > $ egrep 'ACL|--r' chattr.c
> > > > ```
> > > >             "Get POSIX ACL information\n"
> > > >         "  -R, --recursive     recursively list attributes of directories and
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > their \n"
> > >
> > > Oops.  Please patch while you're at it...
> > > ...
> > > >   From 865a5a50501f3fd0cf5ed28500d3e6e45a6456de Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
> > > > From: Christian Franke<...>
> > > > Date: Wed, 19 May 2021 16:24:47 +0200
> > > > Subject: [PATCH] Cygwin: utils: chattr: Improve option parsing.
> > > >
> > > > Interpret '-h' as '--help' only if last argument.
> > >
> > > Who was the idiot using -h for help *and* the hidden flag? *blush*
> > >
> > > I'd vote for --help to be changed to -H for the single character
> > > option.  The help output is very unlikely to be used in scripts,
> > > so that shouldn't be a backward compat problem.
> >
> > New patch attached.
> >
> > Note that there is now the possibly unexpected (& hidden) behavior that
> > 'chattr -h' without file argument clears the hidden attribute of cwd.
>
> Uhm... why?


Because chattr uses '.' as default if no FILE argument is specified. The 
same applies to all other '+-=MODE' arguments. The patch does not change 
this behavior but of course enables it for '-h'.


>    Isn't that easily avoidable?


Yes: make FILE argument mandatory - but this would break backward 
compatibility.

Another behavior (possibly inherited from lsattr) is also not very useful:
'chattr +-=MODE DIRECTORY' also changes the attributes of all elements 
in the directory (not recursively). It is not possible to solely change 
the attributes of a directory except if it is the current directory and 
no FILE argument is passed. Fixing this would again break backward 
compatibility.

Regards,
Christian



