# Re: [Patch]: Create Global Privilege

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2003-12-02T04:06:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20031202040608.GA32358@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20031202040608.GA32358@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../11/26/01-56-00.thread.md#:~:text=2003/12/02/04-06-00)

On Mon, Dec 01, 2003 at 10:55:46PM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Sun, Nov 30, 2003 at 12:07:22AM +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Wed, Nov 26, 2003 at 10:45:57AM -0500, Pierre A. Humblet wrote:
> > > > At 03:32 PM 11/26/2003 +0100, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > Imagine a sshd service is running on the system.  This service has the
> > > > > SE_CREATE_GLOBAL_NAME privilege and would create the global object on
> > > > > system startup (given the service is in automatic mode).  Other
> > > >
> > >
> >
>
> processes
> > > > > would then be able to access the global object, regardless if running in
> > > > > a terminal session or not.  This would keep the process list together,
> > > > > for instance.
> > > >
> > > > [...]
> > > > The problem with the track you start on is that one can end up with a
> > > > split system, e.g. the cygwin share in global space and a tty in local
> > > > space, invisible to the rest of the system. I am unsure of what can
> > > > happen then. Also the user share could be either global or local,
> > >
> >
>
> depending
> > > > if a user (or a seteuid process) is already running at the
> > >
> >
>
> console/service
> > > > at the moment a session starts under Terminal Services. 
> > > > That leads to indeterminate behavior.
> > >
> > >
> > > If we make sure that the first process started in a process hirarchy
> > > determines where the shared mem is, that shouldn't be a problem.  The
> > > decision should be made only once.
> > >
> >
> > I've applied the patch which just a minor change to remove the
> > `if (!prefix)'.
> >
> > However, I think the right thing to do would be to add prefix to
> > cygheap_init so that it survives exec(2) calls.
>
>
> Great Corinna, putting prefix in the cygheap is exactly what I meant to do,
> as discussed earlier in the thread. It wasn't in this patch only to keep
> it simple.
>
> Below is another small patch to lookup pinfo's in the global name space
> when possible.


One might wonder why I, the author of shared_name, didn't use shared_name
to begin with...  I'm pretty sure I had a good reason but it escapes me
at the moment.

> Also, the utmp/wtmp functions use mutexes to insure safe access.
> That creates two problems, particularly on servers:
> - When users have private copies of Cygwin with different mounts,


i.e., an unsupported installation.

cgf

> Index: pinfo.cc
> ===================================================================
> RCS file: /cvs/src/src/winsup/cygwin/pinfo.cc,v
> retrieving revision 1.92
> diff -u -p -r1.92 pinfo.cc
> ```diff
> --- pinfo.cc    28 Nov 2003 20:55:58 -0000      1.92
> +++ pinfo.cc    2 Dec 2003 01:26:54 -0000
> @@ -147,7 +147,7 @@ pinfo::init (pid_t n, DWORD flag, HANDLE
>     {
>       int created;
>       char mapname[CYG_MAX_PATH]; /* XXX Not a path */
> -      __small_sprintf (mapname, "cygpid.%x", n);
> +      shared_name (mapname, "cygpid", n);
>
>       int mapsize;
>       if (flag & PID_EXECED)
> ```
>



