# Fixes for miscellaneous bugs in /proc patch

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Chris January <chris@atomice.net> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-05-03T07:23:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [005d01c1f2ae$8aafc190$0100a8c0@advent02](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/005d01c1f2ae$8aafc190$0100a8c0@advent02) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-23-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/05/03/07-23-00)

This patch superceeds "Fix for incorrect handling of open flags in
fhandler_proc".

Fixes the following bugs:
* '.' and '..' directory entries were missing.
* fhandler_*::open() were using the mode parameter as if it was the flags
parameter. This has been corrected and some minor changes made to the error
handling logic.
* Correctly indentifies the case when you try to create a new file in /proc
or one of its subdirectories.
* dup() was broken, hence cat </proc/uptime, etc. failed. This has now been
corrected.
* fhandler_registry::telldir didn't return the correct position in the
directory.
* fhandler_registry::seekdir didn't work.

Regards
Chris

2002-05-03  Christopher January <chris@atomice.net>

 * fhandler_proc.cc (fhandler_proc::open): Change use of mode to flags.
 If the file does not exist already, fail with EROFS if O_CREAT flag is
 set.
 Use cmalloc to allocate memory for filebuf.
 * fhandler_process.cc (fhandler_process::open): Ditto.
 * fhandler_registry.cc (fhandler_registry::open): Ditto.
 Move check for open for writing before open_key.
 * path.cc (path_conv::check): Do not return ENOENT if a file is not found
 in /proc.
 * fhandler_virtual.cc (fhandler_virtual::write): Change EROFS error to
 EACCES error.
 * fhandler_virtual.cc (fhandler_virtual::open): Set the NOHANDLE flag.
 * fhandler_virtual.cc (fhandler_virtual::dup): Add call to
 fhandler_base::dup.
 Allocate child's filebuf using cmalloc.
 Copy filebuf from parent to child.
 * fhandler_virtual.cc (fhandler_virtual::close): Use cfree to free filebuf.
 * fhandler_proc.cc: Add '.' and '..' to directory listing.
 * fhandler_process.cc: Ditto.
 * fhandler_registry.cc: Ditto.
 * fhandler_registry.cc (fhandler_registry::readdir): Add support for '.'
 and '..' files in subdirectories of /proc/registry.
 * fhandler_registry.cc (fhandler_registry::telldir): Use lower 16 bits
 of __d_position as position in directory.
 * fhandler_registry.cc (fhandler_registry::seekdir): Ditto.



---

**Attachments:**

- [ChangeLog2](ChangeLog2) (application)
- [proc.patch.3](proc.patch.3) (application)
