# Re: [PATCH v4 0/5] find_fast_cwd_pointer rewrite

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2025-04-02T10:36:46+02:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [Z-z3HnUXN7Cm2qI6@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/Z-z3HnUXN7Cm2qI6@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../03/30/01-54-22.thread.md#:~:text=2025/04/02/08-36-46)

On Apr  1 10:25, Jeremy Drake via Cygwin-patches wrote:
> On Tue, 1 Apr 2025, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
>
> > Oh, Jeremy, here's a question.  We only add udis86 to the main branch.
> > What about the 3.6 branch, does it still need a patch to accommodate
> > the fast_cwd magic for a newer, upcoming Windows version?
>
>
> I was going to ask about that too.  I assume the plan is to keep the new
> udis86 code for 3.7, and continue applying band-aids to the old code on
> 3.6 as needed.  The question remains, do we apply band-aids for insider
> builds or wait for an actual release (or something approximating a release
> candidate)?


We shouldn't try to accommodate every insider build.  The fallback code
works for them good enough I think.  Ultimately we support the released
versions only, so starting with a release candidate is early enough.

> > And btw., I checked the file size again, and it turns out that after
> > stripping the debug symbols the DLL takes ~30 pages or 120 K more memory
> > than before udis86.  I hope that's ok.  But if you see ways to shave a
> > few pages off by dropping code from udis86, I wouldn't be too unhappy :}
>
>
> Hmm, I only tested on top of msys2 (which is on gcc 13.3.0), but here's
> what I see:
>
> $ ls -l
> total 47952
> -rwxr-xr-x 1 XXX None 24682293 Apr  1 10:14 postmsys-2.0.dll
> -rwxr-xr-x 1 XXX None 24417887 Apr  1 10:12 premsys-2.0.dll
>
> ```
> $ echo $(( $(stat -c %s postmsys-2.0.dll) - $(stat -c %s premsys-2.0.dll) ))
> 264406
>
> $ strip premsys-2.0.dll
> ```
>
> ```
> $ strip postmsys-2.0.dll
>
> $ ls -l
> total 6428
> ```
>
> -rwxr-xr-x 1 XXX None 3330598 Apr  1 10:15 postmsys-2.0.dll
> -rwxr-xr-x 1 XXX None 3246118 Apr  1 10:15 premsys-2.0.dll
>
> $ echo $(( $(stat -c %s postmsys-2.0.dll) - $(stat -c %s premsys-2.0.dll) ))
> 84480


Ah, I only ran strip -g.  That explains the difference.


Corinna


