# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: pty: Disable clear screen for ssh sessions with -t option.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-11-11T09:18:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20191111091755.GF3372@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20191111091755.GF3372@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../../10/18/11-37-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/11/11/09-18-00)

Hi Takashi,

On Nov  8 22:42, Takashi Yano wrote:
> Hi Corinna,
>
> On Fri, 8 Nov 2019 12:09:55 +0100
> Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Oct 24 15:33, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Oct 24 19:17, Takashi Yano wrote:
> > > > On Thu, 24 Oct 2019 11:38:17 +0200
> > > > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > > > Well, what I see when starting cmd.exe with this patch is a short
> > > > > flicker in the existing output in mintty, but the cursor position
> > > > > stays the same. and cmd.exe output is where you'd expect it.
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > I mean:
> > > > 1) start mintty
> > > > 2) ps
> > > > 3) script
> > > > 4) cmd
> > > >
> > > > In my environment, output of ps command disappears.
> > >
> > >
> > > In mine, too.  This does not occur w/o running script.
> >
> >
> > Any news here?  Why does this only occur with script?  Is that something
> > about reusing (or not reusing) the existing pseudo console?
>
>
> This does not occur only with script. If you run
> ssh localhost
> instead of script in step 3), it also happens.
>
> This is because the console screen buffer is empty when pty
> (pseudo console) is started. By executing cmd.exe, screen
> is redrawn based on the console screen buffer. As a result,
> the screen contents which are not in the screen buffer is
> lost.
>
> I came up with another alternative. How about the attached
> patch? This forcibly redraws screen when the first native
> program is executed after creating new pty (pseudo console),
> instead of clearing screen.
>
> This does not solve missing screen contents, but can avoid
> cursor position problem in netsh.


I tested it and I think this is a great step forward.  Dropping
$TERM checks and clear screen sequence is the way to go!


Thanks,
Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
