# Re: [PATCH] regtool: Ignore /proc/registry{,32,64}/ prefix, with forward or backslashes, allowing path completion

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Corinna Vinschen <corinna-cygwin@cygwin.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2019-11-11T16:28:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20191111162853.GI3372@calimero.vinschen.de](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20191111162853.GI3372@calimero.vinschen.de) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/16-17-00.thread.md#:~:text=2019/11/11/16-28-00)

On Nov 11 08:30, Brian Inglis wrote:
> On 2019-11-11 02:19, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > On Nov 11 10:13, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Nov 10 09:14, Brian Inglis wrote:
> > > The patch idea is nice.  Two nits, though.
> > > Please shorten the commit msg summary line and add a bit of descriptive
> > > text instead.
> >
>
>
> Sorry, I forget and don't notice longer than standard messages, from using
> 120x60 or larger windows.
>
> > > > ---
> > > > ```
> > > >  winsup/utils/regtool.cc | 13 ++++++++++++-
> > > >  1 file changed, 12 insertions(+), 1 deletion(-)
> > > >
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > > > ```diff
> > > > diff --git a/winsup/utils/regtool.cc b/winsup/utils/regtool.cc
> > > > index a44d90768..ddb1304cd 100644
> > > > --- a/winsup/utils/regtool.cc
> > > > +++ b/winsup/utils/regtool.cc
> > > > @@ -167,7 +167,9 @@ usage (FILE *where = stderr)
> > > >        "  users    HKU   HKEY_USERS\n"
> > > >        "\n"
> > > >        "If the keyname starts with a forward slash ('/'), the forward slash is used\n"
> > > > -      "as separator and the backslash can be used as escape character.\n");
> > > > +      "as separator and the backslash can be used as escape character.\n"
> > > > +      "If the keyname starts with /proc/registry{,32,64}/, using forward or backward\n"
> > > > +      "slashes, allowing path completion, that part of the prefix is ignored.\n");
> > > > ```
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > > Is that really essential user information?
> >
>
>
> Absolutely essential!
>
> > > I assume this behaviour is something you just expected to work but then
> > > didn't.  With your patch it now works as you expected.  So it's kind of
> > > a bugfix, rather than a change of behaviour the user needs to learn about.
> >
>
>
> To those with similar background or experience it may appear that it should be
> supported, but hasn't been until now.
>
> It is definitely not expected behaviour, given how regedit, reg, etc. expect
> only hive paths, and how the the current regtool --help reads, clearly expecting
> Windows style backslash separated registry paths, probably pasted within single
> quotes. That expectation is changed somewhat by the forward slash sentence.
> Further changes to expectation needs more documentation.
>
> > > The above text is, IMHO, more confusing than helpful to a user just
> > > asking for regtool --help.  I'd just drop it.
> >
>
>
> It needs documented because it can not in any way be inferred from the existing
> regtool ---help, and would not be expected, that it should work. It was never
> previously supported or seen as helpful or necessary, so it should be seen as a
> non-obvious "surprising" addition, in the opposite sense to "least surprise".
>
> Please someone suggest better wording for the help, as that is the only
> documentation available, and is needed, to update existing and inform new users.
> Like the code, I tried to maintain the style of the existing help.
>
> As an alternative, how about:
> "To support path completion, a keyname prefix of /proc/registry{,32,64}/ is
> ignored."


Ok, we can add something to the help text, but the text still sounds
confusing, even the altenative one.  I think the reason is the negative
expression "ignore" here.  Why not express this in a positive way like
this:

```
  "Use the /proc/registry{,32,64}/ registry path prefix to utilize path
   completion."

```

Something like that anyway.


Corinna

-- 
Corinna Vinschen
Cygwin Maintainer


---

**Attachments:**

- [signature.asc](signature.asc) (application)
