# Re: [PATCH 5/6] Cygwin: Fix warnings about narrowing conversions of socket ioctls

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSW.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2024-08-11T12:31:52-06:00 |
| **Message-ID** | [659ca957-c6bd-481d-99ef-2516e902be31@SystematicSW.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/659ca957-c6bd-481d-99ef-2516e902be31@SystematicSW.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../04/21-48-21.thread.md#:~:text=2024/08/11/18-31-52)

On 2024-08-07 08:06, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> On Aug  6 19:58, Jon Turney wrote:
> > On 05/08/2024 11:22, Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > On Aug  4 22:48, Jon Turney wrote:
> > > > Fix gcc 12 warnings about narrowing conversions of socket ioctl constants
> > > > when used as case labels, e.g:
> > > > [...]
> > >
> > > The only caller, fhandler_socket::ioctl, passes an unsigned int
> > > value to get_ifconf. Given how the value is defined, it would be
> > > more straightforward to convert get_ifconf to
> > >
> > >     get_ifconf (struct ifconf *ifc, unsigned int what);
> > >
> > > wouldn't it?
> >
> >
> > Yeah, I'm not sure why I didn't do that.  I think I got confused about where
> > this is used from.
>
>
> LGTM.  I will additionally push a patch dropping the useless casts.


Hi folks,

Trying to rebuild got a couple of issues with gcc12 and likely recent updates to 
main, as my previous rebuild for /proc/cpuinfo with gcc11 was fine:

- picky g++

   CXX      net.o
In file included from 
```
/usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/socket.h:47,
                  from /usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/include/cygwin/if.h:17,
                  from /usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/include/ifaddrs.h:42,
                  from /usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/net.cc:26:
```

/usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/net.cc: In function ‘int 
get_ifconf(ifconf*, int)’:
/usr/src/newlib-cygwin/winsup/cygwin/net.cc:1940:18: error: narrowing conversion 
of ‘2152756069’ from ‘long unsigned int’ to ‘int’ [-Wnarrowing]
```
  1940 |             case SIOCGIFFLAGS:
       |                  ^~~~~~~~~~~~
```

... and so on

50cf10dfa485 Cygwin: asm/socket.h: drop outdated casts

so change net.cc get_ifconf (struct ifconf *ifc, int what) to unsigned long, and 
where it is also declared in fhandler/socket.cc?

- __utoa (and __itoa) declared in stdlib.h inside #ifndef __CYGWIN__

   CC       libc/stdlib/libc_a-itoa.o
/usr/src/newlib-cygwin/newlib/libc/stdlib/itoa.c: In function ‘__itoa’:
/usr/src/newlib-cygwin/newlib/libc/stdlib/itoa.c:57:3: warning: implicit 
declaration of function ‘__utoa’; did you mean ‘__itoa’? 
[-Wimplicit-function-declaration]
```
    57 |   __utoa (uvalue, &str[i], base);
       |   ^~~~~~
       |   __itoa

```


31f7cd1e4332 Hide itoa, utoa, __itoa and __utoa in stdlib.h on Cygwin only

$ grep -C2 utoa ../../newlib/libc/include/stdlib.h
#ifndef __CYGWIN__
char *  __itoa (int, char *, int);
char *  __utoa (unsigned, char *, int);
# if __MISC_VISIBLE
char *  itoa (int, char *, int);
char *  utoa (unsigned, char *, int);
```
# endif
#endif

so should this be __INSIDE_CYGWIN__ instead or something else?
```


-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis              Calgary, Alberta, Canada

La perfection est atteinte                   Perfection is achieved
non pas lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à ajouter  not when there is no more to add
mais lorsqu'il n'y a plus rien à retirer     but when there is no more to cut
                                 -- Antoine de Saint-Exupéry


---

**Attachments:**

- [newlib-cygwin-build64-gcc-12-issues.log](newlib-cygwin-build64-gcc-12-issues.log) (text)
