# Re: big kill patch (adds list/help/version)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Joshua Daniel Franklin <joshuadfranklin@yahoo.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-03-11T07:12:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020311150159.48027.qmail@web20005.mail.yahoo.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020311150159.48027.qmail@web20005.mail.yahoo.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](07-12-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/03/11/07-12-00)

```diff
--- Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
```

> No lectures, please.  If you want to get rid of a goto, fine. 

'twas a joke. Sorry. 

> I'm sorry but 'kill -l' has an established way of working.  
> How does the linux kill program handle this?

RedHat's prints a list like
```
 1) SIGHUP       2) SIGINT       3) SIGQUIT      4) SIGILL
 5) SIGTRAP      6) SIGABRT      7) SIGBUS       8) SIGFPE
```

...
Looks hard-coded to me, but I didn't look at the sources. I'll hard-code 
the list in the print_list () function.

> If you think that the functions just *have* to be moved before main(), then 
> submit a patch for that.

OK. I was just trying to have the sources be consistant, but main followed by
functions is fine.

> I would prefer that getopt still be used for this functionality.  It should
> still be possible to parse signals by detecting illegal options and seeing
> if they happen to be signal numbers.

I really don't think it's possible since getopt does the illegal-option
parsing. I'm not a getopt expert, but GNU getopt
won't recognize anything that's not in the "ab:cdef". I think the only way
would be to put all possible signals in the long_options struct like:
  { "HUP", no_argument, NULL, SIGHUP},
in which case I *think* the numbers would be recognized, but stuff like -HUP
would have to be --HUP. The problem is that getopt will only parse the first
character after a single dash (and then, if it's another dash, proceed).

Well, I have no political views about goto so I'll probably leave it for
simplicity in a new patch. I'll probably leave out the -l option, too, and 
just stick with adding -h and -v.

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Try FREE Yahoo! Mail - the world's greatest free email!
http://mail.yahoo.com/


