# Re: big kill patch (adds list/help/version)

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2002-03-11T07:48:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [20020311151227.GA15831@redhat.com](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/20020311151227.GA15831@redhat.com) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../10/18-54-00.thread.md#:~:text=2002/03/11/07-48-00)

On Mon, Mar 11, 2002 at 07:01:58AM -0800, Joshua Daniel Franklin wrote:
> ```diff
> --- Christopher Faylor <cgf@redhat.com> wrote:
> ```
>
> > No lectures, please.  If you want to get rid of a goto, fine. 
>
> 'twas a joke. Sorry. 
>
> > I'm sorry but 'kill -l' has an established way of working.  
> > How does the linux kill program handle this?
>
> RedHat's prints a list like
> 1) SIGHUP       2) SIGINT       3) SIGQUIT      4) SIGILL
> 5) SIGTRAP      6) SIGABRT      7) SIGBUS       8) SIGFPE
> ...
> Looks hard-coded to me, but I didn't look at the sources. I'll hard-code 
> the list in the print_list () function.


You're looking at the bash built-in.  /bin/kill just does this:

HUP INT QUIT ILL ABRT FPE KILL SEGV PIPE ALRM TERM USR1 USR2 CHLD CONT
STOP TSTP TTIN TTOU TRAP IOT BUS SYS STKFLT URG IO POLL CLD XCPU XFSZ
VTALRM PROF PWR WINCH UNUSED

> > If you think that the functions just *have* to be moved before main(), then 
> > submit a patch for that.
>
> OK. I was just trying to have the sources be consistant, but main followed by
> functions is fine.


I have no objections to moving the functions for consistency.  I just don't
want to do everything in one mega-patch.

> > I would prefer that getopt still be used for this functionality.  It should
> > still be possible to parse signals by detecting illegal options and seeing
> > if they happen to be signal numbers.
>
> I really don't think it's possible since getopt does the illegal-option
> parsing. I'm not a getopt expert, but GNU getopt
> won't recognize anything that's not in the "ab:cdef". I think the only way
> would be to put all possible signals in the long_options struct like:
>  { "HUP", no_argument, NULL, SIGHUP},
> in which case I *think* the numbers would be recognized, but stuff like -HUP
> would have to be --HUP. The problem is that getopt will only parse the first
> character after a single dash (and then, if it's another dash, proceed).
>
> Well, I have no political views about goto so I'll probably leave it for
> simplicity in a new patch. I'll probably leave out the -l option, too, and 
> just stick with adding -h and -v.


Here, again, I have no problems with your moving things into a function.
I just like single purpose patches.  They're easier to say "yes" or "no",
to.

cgf


