# Re: [PATCH] Cygwin: console: Fix segfault on shared_console_info access.

| Header | Value |
|--------|-------|
| **From** | Brian Inglis <Brian.Inglis@SystematicSw.ab.ca> |
| **To** | cygwin-patches@cygwin.com |
| **Date** | 2020-02-25T17:56:00Z |
| **Message-ID** | [d22e398b-f655-3259-a29a-b7678c5b23fb@SystematicSw.ab.ca](https://inbox.sourceware.org/cygwin-patches/d22e398b-f655-3259-a29a-b7678c5b23fb@SystematicSw.ab.ca) |

---

**Thread**: [thread](../21/19-10-00.thread.md#:~:text=2020/02/25/17-56-00)

On 2020-02-24 20:53, Takashi Yano wrote:
> On Tue, 25 Feb 2020 12:08:16 +0900
> Takashi Yano wrote:
> > On Mon, 24 Feb 2020 19:33:18 +0100
> > Corinna Vinschen wrote:
> > > Is there some kind of workaround for that problem?  Otherwise defaulting
> > > to a (broken) xterm mode instead of a (working) cygwin mode is a bit
> > > questionable, isn't it?
> >
> >
> > In my environment, legacy cygwin mode is not 'working' with
> > gray background and black foreground. You can confirm what
> > happens if xterm mode is disabled by reverting cygwin to 3.0.7.
> >
> > If you type 'aaa' in shell prompt and hit backspace, then
> > whole line after cursor gets black. Furthermore, if you run
> > vim, whole screen gets into black background and gray fore-
> > ground.
> >
> > Do not these happen in your environment?
> >
> > Oh, wait. I was setting foreground and background color in
> > "terminal" tab in property. If I set them in "colors" tab,
> > cmd.exe behaves differently. In this setting, your problem
> > does not seems to occur.
>


Terminal tab is only supported in latest W10 (Home - not necessarily Enterprise,
Education, etc.) and is "experimental" so properties could disappear, change,
work differently.

> I was wrong. The problem also occur with "colors" tab setting.
> However, in this case, ScrollConsoleScreenBuffer() test case
> does not cause the problem. Therefore it may be possible to
> make a workaround for this. I will try.


Please do not forget many users may still be running earlier W10 or pre-W10
releases as we still support Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, some may be running server
releases, and even running under Wine.

-- 
Take care. Thanks, Brian Inglis, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

This email may be disturbing to some readers as it contains
too much technical detail. Reader discretion is advised.


